**[00:00] SPEAKER_05:** OK, well, we have a special treat for you. Before we get into our regular scheduled content, we are adding a new weekly segment called Strato Spotlight, where we highlight the latest and greatest features on Strato. And for this week, we have a really special one. Kieran, why don't you announce it?

**[00:20] SPEAKER_04:** Thanks, Victor. So we completed our relaunch onto version 2 a little over a month ago and wanted to monitor the system a little bit to just make sure everything was working well before we turned rewards back on. We have done that as of this Thursday. And not been loud about it just yet, we've been testing a little bit internally and it seems all good to go. So Michael will show you a little bit about what I'd call season one of our rewards program. Season zero was very successful, bringing in about eight million of TVL.

**[01:00] SPEAKER_02:** And we hope to see similar and greater results with the new rewards program. Over to Michael. Hi, everyone. So I'm introducing new rewards program. This page will be under the rewards section under the tab. You can find it here. This activities tab shows all the different activities people are doing in order to obtain rewards on the platform. Some are one time, such as lending from the borrowing pool here or just like making a contributing liquidity to the swapping pools as this person has done. We're going to start with the CDP mint. Go to advanced. Go to here. We have to first add a collateral to the vault. I believe this account has some EFST. Going to deposit it. There you go. Deposited. We can borrow. I'm just going to borrow, let's say, 100 USDST. 91, rather. There you go. Then we borrow the 91 USDST. And that would be accruing rewards as a position. Next, we're gonna do deposit to lending pool. We have about, let's see, 496. Let's deposit 100 here. Great. Now we're going to do a swap, which is a one-time position. Let's do 100 swap assets. And add to liquidity pools. When you add to liquidity pools, it is an ongoing position. So then every time, as long as you leave your funds in the pool, you'll be accruing rewards. Turn deposit here. Great. And now we have the regular borrow functionality. Right now, I had deposited, I believe, two ETH earlier. So I'm going to just borrow a little bit here. And this will be accruing rewards ongoing also. Great. Borrowed. Now I just want to show you the My Rewards section of the page. We have this claimable section that you can claim at any time, there's no minimum, but this also shows your active positions, such as the lending pool position that we took, blending and borrowing, and any kind of liquidity that you contribute to the swap pools that I'm gonna claim here. And it's as simple as that.

**[03:30] SPEAKER_05:** Back over to you guys.

**[03:31] SPEAKER_04:** Awesome. Thank you, Michael. And we should highlight for everyone, if you look at the activities, there's a long list of activities that you can do to earn straddle points. And also, if you currently are engaged in one of the activities, for example, if you already have put some into a swapping pool or the lending pool, you have to take it out and put it back in to re-enable rewards for the system. Kieran, anything you want to add?

**[03:55] SPEAKER_05:** Just that this was on testnet, it is live on livenet. You'll see very slight differences when you do so.

**[04:00] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, so thank you, everyone. Please start using the reward system. We'd love to give out lots of rewards to you. We, you know, in preparation to launching our full main net and making these rewards tradable in the future. So thank you for tuning in. Hope you use our rewards and tune in for more Strava Spotlight segments in the future. Take care.

**[04:20] SPEAKER_05:** Okay, we are live, and we have a very special episode today. We are talking about the future of art and NFTs, and we're joined by special guest and very old friend, John Crane. Welcome, John Crane.

**[04:35] SPEAKER_01:** Hey, Victor. Hey, everyone. Good to see you guys. Thanks for having me.

**[04:40] SPEAKER_05:** John Crane, of course, as everyone knows, is the founder of SuperRare. But do you want to give a quick intro for anyone who is not intimately familiar with all the amazing things you've done over the past couple of years?

**[04:50] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, sure. So yeah, I... Let's see, my crypto journey started in around 2015, going to the Consensus Hackathon where I met at least three of the other folks on this call there. Yeah, before that, my background was kind of in art and technology. I worked in advertising. I studied architecture and structural engineering for undergrad. And yeah, I was always really interested in when crypto and blockchain were going to intersect more with kind of the consumer tech and just, you know, things that were a little bit past, you know, finance and trading. And so, yeah, when I saw NFTs, it was an instant win for digital art. And so I doubled down immediately.

**[05:35] SPEAKER_05:** I remember how you heard about the hackathon or Ethereum generally, obviously we met there, but like, what was that? Yeah. Well, your idea.

**[05:45] SPEAKER_01:** No, so I was I was kind of hanging out with the New York Bitcoin crowd. Actually, yeah, I had actually met I think John Lillick, which I forgot, but I met him at the like the New York Bitcoin Center. I don't know if you guys remember that.

**[05:55] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, we do.

**[05:55] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. So I was hanging around and actually I was like I was super into Counterparty. So I was very much like Ethereum is too complicated. You know, Vitalik's full of shit. It's not going to work. And then the network launched and I was like, OK, I was wrong. Like, this is actually super cool. Like, you know, I have no problem changing. I was like I was totally wrong this is amazing and I was just like googling Ethereum blockchain hackathon I was like trying to find like get deeper involved you know I was trying to like quit my day job and go full-time crypto and so then I I think I just googled it and it was like oh there's this hackathon in two weeks and I applied with Charles and then yeah met you guys.

**[06:35] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, and to be clear, to let everyone know that we were blown away by you and your brother Charles' project, and we gave you, I think, your first job, both of you in Web3, right? We gave you the...

**[06:45] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, yeah, yeah, for sure. Exactly, yeah. I think the Monday after, I feel like I immediately quit and started working with you guys full-time on Block Apps.

**[06:55] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, I think we tried to give you a job on the spot because you guys were...

**[06:58] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, yeah. There was like a couple week consulting transition period while, you know. Yeah, I think that's true. Yeah. Maybe it was like we started like hourly, like, you know, getting to know each other a little bit and then full time. Yeah. So with Counterparty, you could have been on Krista Rose Tech.

**[07:15] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, exactly. If only. So what inspired SuperRare? I know when you were working with us, you kind of became our head of product and you were working on a bunch of those enterprise implementations. But what triggered you to kind of create SuperRare, which is for anyone who doesn't know, one of the first NFT platforms really out there?

**[07:35] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I, well, I mean, it was super interesting, right? You know, like we were all kind of on the ground floor at the consensus office or like, you know, at least me and Kieran are hanging out there and like watching the ICO boom happen was fascinating. Cause I was like, I remember me and Kieran talked a bunch about, you know, ERC 20 tokens and like, I found it was like super interesting that it was this very small bit of standard is a super simple protocol, very simple code. But like the adoption created this, you know, there's massive wealth generation. And even if there were also lots of scams, I'd say generally net positive for humans in the economy. Like it was like incredible to see that happen. And so then I saw some of the standards conversations around ERC721 and I saw the CryptoPunks launch and I was like, well, this is pretty crazy. If you think about the consumer web, it's all an image and a title tag and some metadata. It could be that the entire consumer web turns into NFTs and that I don't know exactly what the business model is going to look like, but the total addressable market is probably pretty large. So that got me into NFTs. And then on the flip side of that, I was also kind of in and around the New York art scene, like going to the art fairs. I had friends who were looking for gallery representation and kind of part of the business of art. And it's just seemed obvious. I was like, oh, there's now a way to kind of like truly own digital assets. And this is obviously going to apply to digital art. So it's kind of like the marriage of, you know, like my interest in the tech side, but then also my interests and passions around art.

**[09:00] SPEAKER_05:** And like, what was it like to be at the forefront of like the NFT explosion? Because you guys, like, I know for a long time you were building and it was like, oh, you know, like, how's it going? And, you know, like, no one is really paying attention. And all of a sudden, you know, next day, everyone's talking about NFTs.

**[09:15] SPEAKER_01:** It was absolutely crazy. It was hard to be like, it was just like completely surreal the whole time. Like it felt like a dream. Like we, you know, we started in 2018. We, you know, we were, we tried to raise money. It never really worked. Like by the time we raised, we were already, you know, cashflow positive and like making more than we were paying ourselves. So that's the best situation to possibly be. Yeah. It was like, it was much easier to raise then than when I was like, I have this really cool idea. So it was, yeah, it was like, you know, it was a grind. It was super volatile. Many times I was just like, what am I doing with my life? But, uh, yeah, then it just, it just really started. Like, I remember the numbers were like doubling every month for a while. And like, I remember it was October, 2020 was our first million dollar month in volume. And I was just like, this is wild, you know? Cause, but. You 12 months ago, we were like, all right. So the volume was like $5,000. We made a couple hundred bucks. Okay.

**[10:10] SPEAKER_05:** And were you guys the first self minting NFT platform?

**[10:15] SPEAKER_01:** I think like we're, we're trying to talk about that actually. Yeah, we, yeah, we were the first to come like, I think there were maybe a couple other minting tools, but like we were the first to combine like the minting and the marketplace experience. So it was like, there weren't like great minting tools then. So we like, we started with the minting tool and then we're like, all right, I guess people need a place to sell this. So we'll like, we'll build the marketplace too. And you know, it's partially just out of necessity. Cause like the tooling sucked at the time.

**[10:40] SPEAKER_05:** It's funny because I remember, if you recall, what later became the Flow guys doing CryptoKitties. They were based in Vancouver and I was talking to them about running it on our blockchain and doing that kind of stuff too at the time. And I mean, you've done so much. One of the amazing things, it's the launch of the Rare token. And you guys seem to be one of the first projects that was really committed to sort of figuring out DAO governance in reality. What led to that and how did that go? What did you figure out there?

**[11:10] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I mean, you know, early on, I was like part of like what got me excited about Bitcoin and Ethereum is just the idea of these networks where, you know, the users of the networks also participate in upside of the network. You know, like there there's the, you know, like the the FAP protocol article that was super popular, like 2016. So just like thinking about like, OK, what does monetization look like? And, you know, can you build platforms that are you know, like they're more like collaborative than extractive where it's like, you know, if you're meta, you're just like, I'm just gonna extract as much metadata and, you know, sell ads, you know, which is a great business, but partially for me, it was almost like a, you know, a thought experiment of like, is it possible to build a network where you don't have to sell ads? And it could be like, maybe it's a marketplace as the business model. And then, you know, kinda, it's like collective ownership via the token. So. Yeah, I was, you know, drinking a lot of the crypto Kool-Aid at the time.

**[12:00] SPEAKER_05:** Did you do it like classic ICO style? Was there like fixed price auction? How did it, how did the rare get in there?

**[12:05] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, we actually just did a huge airdrop. Probably one of our mistakes. Yeah. So like we should have probably, you know, sold a bunch of tokens, but we actually just gave them away. And yeah, I mean, yeah, there's plenty of challenges to like, you know, DAOs are hard to manage and run. But, you know, it's cool to see the current administration kind of like change tack and actually seem like they're interested in like building and pushing forward. So.

**[12:30] SPEAKER_05:** What do you think the biggest challenge was in, what do you think, you know, the biggest challenge was in running a DAO? Because I think all of us had that sort of as an ideal state with the crypto Kool-Aid, you know, running things completely decentralized. What do you think are, you know, the challenges you faced when you did it and that are still out there, do you think?

**[12:50] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. I mean, I think still one of the bigger challenges is regulatory. Like you have, you're like, you're kind of like trying to read the tea leaves and then rather than just making like the bet, you're like, okay, well, this is the simplest, best decision. You're like, okay, well, this is not clear what this means. So maybe we should do this. And like, how do we, you know, not get in trouble for trying to experiment. And it's obviously, you know, the position is friendlier, but there's still no clear, like, rules. You know, it's like the, obviously like the Gensler era of, you know, enforcement.

**[13:20] SPEAKER_05:** The dark ages, you know.

**[13:20] SPEAKER_04:** Gary's going to be turning up for a job somewhere soon, isn't he? Yeah. Man. Do you think of it as the advice? Do you think of it more like it should be like a representative democracy? Like should it be like passing bills in there?

**[13:35] SPEAKER_01:** I think they're like, they're proposals and there's like delegation usually is the model. Yeah. It can also be like, just like you got a couple of leaders, but the stake could call a confidence vote or something. Or like people like utarchy too. I haven't tried it yet, but what's that? Like MetaDAO is trying to do that sort of thing. Yeah. I think, I think it kind of depends on like specifically what you're doing. You know, if it's something like, you know, I mean, Bitcoin and Ethereum are obviously not DAOs, but just like, you know, where it's like if small changes can have potentially like catastrophic impact, I think that's one thing. If you know, it's, you know, like super rare where it's like, if there's a, there's a low level protocol and there's application and like, you know, other than like the escrow contracts for auctions and things like the stakes are like fairly low. I do kind of like the idea of if you can empower a team or a few individuals to kind of just keep going, and then the token holders can tell people to stop versus having to approve everything, that's a very silly, arduous process. And I feel like it should be more like, okay, if you're veering off in the wrong direction, there's a way to kind of raise your voice and influence it.

**[14:40] SPEAKER_05:** You know, having a vote on like what color the button should be or something is very absurd. I'm curious, like, you know, given that you're a decentralization advocate, how do you balance like being a curated kind of platform and being open? You know, like, how do you think about those two? Because I think one of the advantages of SuperRare with the curation side in art, you keep the quality very, very high. and yeah unlike you know more marketplace type NFT platforms which just frankly puts a ton of crap like out there so yeah yeah how do you balance those two and kind of keep decentralized do you think.

**[15:10] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah no it is i mean it's kind of challenging it's almost almost a paradox um but i think you know we've kind of always taken the like minimal decentralization so it's like you have it where it's useful and then you're like one example is like we were like talking about like token models early on it was like maybe we'll have token holders vote on artists and i was just like that sounds like the most dramatic terrible thing i could ever imagine you know it's like people voting like your art's terrible like you're like oh my word.

**[15:40] SPEAKER_04:** I mean, in the pump.fun streamer heyday, I think that it could have really worked during that period of time. Yeah, you know, maybe we could have people stream. Yeah, it's like live going. Like, is the art good or bad? Watch this artist threaten to commit suicide. I did do stuff on a dating project once where you basically had to be voted in based on your notes, which just seems horrible.

**[16:00] SPEAKER_05:** Very, very evil, you know. But there's right now 10 pages, remember those?

**[16:05] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, yes, or Hot or Not or all of those.

**[16:05] SPEAKER_05:** Oh, yeah, yeah. It's, yeah, just brutal. But, yeah, especially in places, you know, the art industry can be quite vicious, right?

**[16:15] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, it's challenging and good art is subjective. I feel like the on-chain auctions, escrow on-chain, that makes a lot of sense. On-chain voting for which artists are good, that's kind of like, let people who are like making decisions, like do their thing. And then if it starts to be, you know, like if things get out of hand, maybe like the token holders can like, you know, raise awareness, but yeah. And like part of it too. I mean, actually early on, we were like, thought we would be more of an open platform. And then as things progressed, there were more tools. Like, you know, we were just trying, it was like, we were building things, trying to add value. And yeah, there's a ton of open tooling. So like early on, we kind of thought we might have like super rare as like the ultra curated, view into the market. And then maybe you have like, you know, another kind of like open platform, that's anyone could use, but, I'm, I'm curious, like what was the, like, what, like, you know, it's a two side market with market artists and art buyers. Like, what do you think, like, Did you have to get the artist first to convince them and how did you do that? Or did you have to get the art first?

**[17:15] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, we, you know, you kind of had to get both first. So, I mean, we started like just, you know, out of like, it really started as just me kind of like experimenting and building. And so we were like, you know, started with the minting tools. I was going around like demoing, talking to people and, you know, I guess we, it first kind of piqued interest of the artists. Like I was, you know, like we were like talking about how it would work. And then when we, when we first launched the, we kind of had, so there's, uh, Jason Bailey, who was kind of like an early digital art advocate, you know, big writer. He ran a company or runs a company called club NFT that does like NFT art backups. Yeah. And. he hit us up and was like, Hey guys, like we'd been talking to him. And he was like, I know you're getting close with your product. Like I want to buy this art on Monday. Can we, can I do it on super rare? And I like looked at Charlie and I was like, do you, Jason wants to, you know, buy something on main net on Monday. Like, what can we do? That was in like 36 hours that Charlie was like, yeah, probably. And so then we basically stayed up for 36 hours fixing bugs.

**[18:15] SPEAKER_05:** I'm getting flashbacks to when Microsoft said we want to launch blockchain as a service with you at DevCon 1.

**[18:20] SPEAKER_01:** Exactly. Oh my God. There are many parallels. Nothing like a good deadline to get. Yes, exactly. Especially with a big, you know, major event. partner that you know can make or break you right so yeah just don't have live demos on the end of all of that as well yeah exactly that's when it gets real risky we actually so when we did it there was a there's a funny bug with the like the react stuff so we were like live like helping we were like live streaming or not live streaming but like screen sharing the transaction with this artist Robbie Barat and Jason And we're like literally pushing fixes. It was like, oh, we didn't know. I didn't expect that to happen. Like, okay, one second. Like, all right, it's deployed. Just reload the page. Lots of cash clearing. I remember about that.

**[19:00] SPEAKER_04:** I'm curious what you see as the future of just generally like art and NFTs. Can I jump in on this?

**[19:05] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, please. Take a take on it.

**[19:05] SPEAKER_04:** So in DeFi, we're starting to see, like as the administration has cleared the way to some extent, It seems like, you know, there was a pent up demand for something like a TradFi DeFi merger. It's not all the way there yet, but it's, you know, getting to just be five. Like I see the path to that happening. Do you think like it's NFTs really stay sort of like a distinct asset class forever? I know, you know, maybe you could talk about your gallery. I know you started to do a lot of like physical sales. Et cetera. Like, does it kind of, what, or, you know, do they merge? Do they not? Do they? Yeah. Like, like trad art become NFT art and digital art or like.

**[19:40] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. I, you know, I, like the NFT stuff, I do think kind of just like eventually fades into the background. Like the real zero to one is, you know, cryptographically secure provenance. So, you know, you could use that for physical art. You could use it for digital. I think it was like, more of a breakthrough with digital, because you can kind of argue the token is the art. You now have this more liquid asset. So for art specifically, yeah, it's kind of just becoming part of the market. And I think you'll see NFTs used with digital art, obviously, but also with physical art. Like no one's really, if you like, the lack of good data on provenance in the art market and collectibles in general is kind of amazing. It's still like, oh, there's a sticker on the back that says it was from this gallery. Probably it was. Probably it was? Nobody knows. And so, And also, I think a lot of people are really trying to tie the physical asset to the digital asset, which I think is a waste of time. Personally, if you have the physical asset and you also have custody of the certificate of authenticity, that's kind of good enough. You don't really need some complicated tech solution there. And it's hard to imagine a world in which collectors and like customers that you just want, like, I personally have like a higher perceived value for physical art that also has an NFT with it. And I think in general, that trend continues. So I think digital art will kind of just become a bigger part of the contemporary art market. And then eventually we'll see NFTs used as certificates of authenticity, you know, for all, you know, high value objects.

**[21:10] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, I mean, one of the big things I didn't realize is that a friend of mine is an artist and she often gets a request for the value that was paid for it because someone wants to insure it, right? And there's this whole downstream kind of economy. Insurance, appraisal, lending, you need much better. And so it's like,

**[21:25] SPEAKER_01:** I mean, Kieran, you and I have talked about the lending stuff a little bit. I think the lending market for these types of assets is small just because there's not good information. You could probably really grow that pie quite a bit if you do have easier access to provenance information.

**[21:40] SPEAKER_04:** Let me add a little on that front. So I felt having been more of an NFT style RWA marketplace for a while and gone more DeFi, I thought that people wanted to tokenize to sell things at first, and this is true, but I think it is better that they tokenize to unlock liquidity in selling could be one way but people kind of want to hold on to stuff like i don't want to sell my ETH i don't want to sell my you know et cetera yeah you would know better than us at the very high end of the market you know if you get like a wealth manager they'll they might extend some credit against your picasso right or but for everybody else and you probably have a lot of separate money for that too you can't really like I don't know if people fire sell their art, but it tends to sit there. And I used to think that was bad, but maybe it should sit there, but the credit markets actually just make it liquid, you know, as we've discussed before, which I think would be super cool. Like, I'm surprised, or we're getting into that world, but we're not.

**[22:25] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, we're seeing it. I feel like there's the green shoots of like, okay, here's what's possible. It totally makes sense. I think just- Like NFTs almost just is like, they're a great, you know, like we've talked, a lot of people in crypto love talking about identity and stuff. And like, to me, it's like NFTs are like a beautiful, very simple digital identity for whatever. You can pack anything you want in that metadata. It's just like a packet full of stuff. It's very simple. They're unique. They're pointers to one specific thing.

**[22:50] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, I mean, I love the way you talk about, you know, NFTs as certificates of authenticity, because I didn't realize this. We looked into like the physical art market for a while and like every auction at Sotheby's when they have a big piece, like they have to research it effectively from scratch, right? Like they have to build that entire chain of provenance with every piece that they do, which is an insane amount of work every single time.

**[23:10] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, it's a very high friction process. Like the transactions are very, very high friction, which is good. You know, like depending on where your position is in the market, like obviously Sotheby's loves being the, you know, the keeper of all secrets and information. But I think that's clearly going to be disintermediated with technology. Joe, any new assets or maybe are you guys, you know, just declare war on the auction houses? Houses, you know, other high-end physical goods?

**[23:35] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, I mean, we're focusing, like, our expansion, like, you know, we launched the gallery earlier this year, offline gallery. It's on the Bowery right next to the museum. And, you know, we're showing physical, digital art, you know, installations, you know, projections, all sorts of different things. And yeah, I think like, you know, our view, like if you look at the models, like they're all like the galleries are not doing great, you know, business wise, the auction houses are hurting.

**[24:00] SPEAKER_04:** I think everyone's trying to find a more sustainable model and. Stuff is so illiquid, right? I don't mean to interrupt, right? It's just enormous stuff sitting five years, 10 years, you know, and it's feast or famine. Like if we print a bunch of money, probably get a bunch of transactions. Yeah. Just wait. Yeah. Like 2021 people were just, you know, you know, buying Picasso's on their phones and crazy ape.

**[24:20] SPEAKER_01:** Crazy apes, right? Everything. Ether rocks. I remember when Ether rocks were like the prices exploding and I was like, this is truly amazing. Yeah, I think like the models have to change. And, you know, just as like if you think what the Internet's done as far as like shopping, right? It's like you can price compare easily on your phone in any stores, right? There's no kind of like price arbitrage. You're like, you're going to look up the price of something, you can scan something, figuring it like ask ChatGPT, what is this? How much should it cost? And so I think like, The art world has really, it has been like an insider's game of who knows who and like, what's the real price, like the marketed price versus like what was actually paid. And I think that's gonna like, it's kind of slowly like unwinding and we'll see, we'll end up with a market structure where pricing is just much more transparent. You can see things on chain. And I mean, I think that's you know, like that's kind of like part of the opportunity is as the market becomes more efficient, we'll have the best tools to to service the new structure.

**[25:15] SPEAKER_05:** So it sounds like even the big guys want more liquidity but they're not willing to like let go of their proprietary information advantage i guess.

**[25:20] SPEAKER_01:** yeah yeah exactly and i but it's a nice like that's a kind of also the paradox it's like you'll have more liquidity if it's better access to information but like you know it's the classic uh what's the the innovators dilemma the innovators let me exactly i was like tip my time yeah classic innovators dilemma.

**[25:35] SPEAKER_04:** Well, I, I think some of the auction houses are even trying to offer loans to try and lock people up even longer. Right. To, to their places.

**[25:40] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, they have, I mean, I, like they're all Christie's inside of it. Like a lot of the big, or most of the auction houses are private. So I don't know how big their businesses are, but they do have, yeah. there's like you know people will like inherit art and it's like they don't really care necessarily and their advisor was like don't sell that you should just take out a loan and so they do have them but that seems like a classic conflict of interest to your point right like like oh we'll tell you how much it's worth and we'll loan you based on that yeah it's very one-sided and you can't really shop it around it's like ultra specialized information Jim, did you want to ask a question? You look like you came off mute.

**[26:15] SPEAKER_05:** Well, it's a little bit of a different topic, but I'll throw it in right now anyway. What has been the effect for good or bad of AI and art on what you're doing?

**[26:25] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. As far as the startup goes, it's been great. We had a little robot on our Slack you can talk to that does things for you. As far as the art market goes, I think it's all, I mean, it's also been kind of great. Like in my mind, this is just like, you know, it's a new tool that unlocks creative, you know, like you can kind of like do different creative things. It-

**[26:45] SPEAKER_05:** You're encouraging it then.

**[26:45] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. Oh yeah. We have like tons of artists use AI. I mean, you know, there's also tons of artists we work with who hate it and, you know, think it's the end of all creativity. I think just like, you know, if you look, I think you like what it really enables is like somebody to do more complex things. You know, it's like where you can like all the grunt work you don't have to do. So now maybe it's instead of making one still image, you're going to do insane world building where it's like, you can go in, you can, you know, like the art's just more interactive. And actually the first art we ever sold on SuperRare was kind of like generated via like GANs, like adversarial networks, like voting on outcomes. So I think, you know, it's inevitable, it's gonna happen. It's kind of like, you know, digital cameras were the end of photography and they obviously were not.

**[27:30] SPEAKER_05:** Do you think like, you know, going back to the metadata and certificates of authority that proving some part was based, you know, done by a human will be valued into art or any kind of creation?

**[27:40] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. I mean, I think, yeah, just like if you, you know, it's like, it's super amazing to see like the rate at which content's being created and like, you know, people, it's like, you can watch a video of like, that person didn't actually say that, but it looks like they did. I think that's where you're like, nobody ever answers a random phone number. If someone's calling you and it's not in your phone, you're like, I literally never answered this. Like, I don't know who does that. You'd have to be like pretty insane. It's sort of like you've kind of certified like the numbers, you know, and I think it'll end up being the same with like content and like art and stuff where it's like, If it isn't, you know, signed somehow cryptographically, you'll probably just assume it's fake because there's no real way to know.

**[28:15] SPEAKER_05:** Have you seen much interest on the Bitcoin side in terms of ordinals and inscriptions and stamps and runes? Like how is that looking?

**[28:20] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah