```
**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** So, hello. I am Bob Summerwill and this is Early Days of Ethereum, uh, with my good friend Victor Trón. So, hi Victor, how are you? Very, very well, thank you. Hello, Bob, thank you for inviting me to the show. It's wonderful. Three minutes? Well, great to have you here. So, yeah, we bumped into each other in Buenos Aires for DevCon and I'd hoped to record there, but for one reason or another that never happened, so good to connect with you online instead. So, talking about early days of Ethereum—you were very early in Ethereum. So, I mean, what were you doing in your life prior to that that led you to the project? And then work-wise, I was—

**[00:42] SPEAKER_01:** Not exactly. I wouldn't say I was exactly very close to the crypto scene, to be honest. I was working on a project with BBC News Labs, basically a NewsJuice project. He was trying to kind of ingest a lot of news sources, like from old photo archives, video archives, and everything, and kind of juice it—like, basically work through the speech recognition and everything, and categorize it, and make it searchable in a very nice way. I mean, of course, it's one of these kind of BBC-sponsored projects no one really needed and it was never really used, but it was a nice project to work on. And anyway, so I kind of left the job at that time. You were in London—you were living in London? So, yeah, I was in London, I was living in London, and I left the job because I found Ethereum. I was very excited right away. So, when—I guess it was when Gavin visited this kind of web, new web meetup—I think it was a new web meetup—and then presented Ethereum, I was absolutely taken aback, and I thought it was amazing and a game changer. And I mean, what led me to it, to be honest, it was already quite a bit into Bitcoin, which is kind of interesting, because Bitcoin came into my life through a friend who I knew from an anarchist club, or like a Facebook group, basically. So, it's kind of he introduced me to it on ideological grounds, but of course I was very interested in the tech as well. So, it's—but it took me quite a while to understand what is blockchain, how all these things come together. But by that time I was kind of solid in understanding the blockchain, and my understanding was solid enough so that I could question Gavin and then Vitalik and say, "That is absolutely not going to work, obviously, because of this whole thing problem." And, you know, bit by bit, when I understood that they all had answers to every question that I could ever think of, then that's when I got convinced that they're probably the geniuses I really, really can want to look up to and have in my biography to learn from. It was a very, very, very great start. And so, when Gavin presented it, the next day I was already hacking on the C++ codebase actually, and had my first PR in. We met in a café in Dalston, I think. And I remember it was quite impressive that I learned he was using Mac, but actually was running Linux OS on it. It was very impressive already.

**[03:12] SPEAKER_00:** And so you mentioned your anarchist group there. So, had Bitcoin earlier been interesting to you from that kind of monetary—

**[03:20] SPEAKER_01:** You know, anarchist, libertarian—I have to say, I have to say yes. I mean, when Bitcoin came, this was the time when I even—anyway—kind of learned what money was really. I mean, before I didn't even grasp this notion, and it was very important times in my life, and it was really a game changer to have a framework in which I could totally identify myself with. And yeah, libertarian—I don't know if it's the right word—but I really like this kind of Austrian view of economy. And I understood what—how our money was used and what inflation was, which I never really understood before. It was okay. I came late to the game, let's say. Let's say that. But yeah, and then it was all very—

**[04:00] SPEAKER_00:** Was a history after—and the next web meeting that you mentioned—was that like a recurring meetup that you were going to, or were you regularly going to kind of, you know, web meetups? Yes, but yes, but this one particularly—I saw that because I saw Vitalik's presentation in Miami and so—

**[04:15] SPEAKER_01:** So that really got me interested, so I knew what I was in for, and I went and showed up for that meeting in Hoxton Square, I think it was, that meeting. Sorry, you said Vitalik's presentation—was that the one that he'd given in Miami? Yes, exactly, Miami conference. And so I kind of knew already what I expected from it, but of course I never really understood it, and Gavin helped me quite a bit to understand it. So it was really great. Were you watching a variety of Bitcoin conference talks? Was that a sort of a regular thing that you were doing at that point, watching YouTube? Yes, at the time I was very, very interested and very much into these things. I mean, I was hoping that, you know, changes related to these kinds of technologies would come a lot earlier. I was already careful.

**[05:00] SPEAKER_00:** I was sold in the hype a bit, or contributed to it myself in a way. Had you been sort of following along with things like Mastercoin and Colored Coins and other sort of Bitcoin 2.0 projects? Yes, actually I did, yeah.

**[05:10] SPEAKER_01:** It was kind of—I think it was BitShares at the point. I'm sorry? And it was BitShares, I think. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. And there was this kind of—and then Open Transactions, which was very close to kind of Gavin's heart, I think. We worked together. And yeah, I don't know what came out of that after all, but it's interesting. And then, so after I left the BBC and ran in that winter, just kind of spent in Thailand—half in the retreat—and then in my spare time I was working on the Yellow Paper and making my way through the really hard notation and getting put on paper. Yes, a lot of people struggled with that sort of math-heavy notation and—

**[05:50] SPEAKER_00:** And so you went to Gav's presentation, which would have been very early February. So, I mean, that was only like a week or so after Vitalik's presentation in Miami. It would have been very, very close. So you spoke to Gav there and then you exchanged emails, did you?

**[06:05] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, basically, we changed emails. He put me on a Skype group. There was a Skype group at the time. I think it was 20-odd people on it, really. So not a big crowd. And yeah, that's how it all started. So it was very nice in the beginning to have this kind of really grandiose ideas and chat and be part of it. I'm super proud and very happy that I managed to be at the—

**[06:30] SPEAKER_00:** It's kind of a lucky move, to be honest. So, was it a fair bit later in that year that you started working with Danny on Swarm?

**[06:36] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, then it came a little bit later. So, yes, first of all, in the spring, I started working on the Yellow Paper and then a bit on the C++, but not a lot. And then I think it was in March or sometime that I showed up on the first Ethereum meetup. Maybe not the first—I think you told me that it was not the first, but the second one. In London, this is? Yes, yes, yes, yes. So this was organized by Stéphane Tual. Stéphane Tual there. There was a Michail there, who later came—Nakasha, I think. And then—sorry, Mihail was there, right? Yes, yes. And I think who I talked to quite a lot was Jack de Rose. Yeah, of Colony—Colony fame, exactly. And then there is when I met Jeff first. Jeff became my boss later. He came to London for that meetup? Yes, yes, he did. And so I kind of saw that it's quite an international crowd and from all over the world kind of doing these things. So I kind of took it very seriously. I said, they had left my job and then joined the ranks, and I kind of started contributing to the Go code, and so yeah, after that I kind of—I was really, I was really into Go. That's where I contributed most and became part of the Go Ethereum team after—and after Jeff offered this job, it was around—September, October—that year when the Foundation was already—

**[07:40] SPEAKER_00:** Of actually paying out some salaries or like recruiting people on the teams. Yeah. So, I mean, I was looking at the timing on that. So the Ethereum Foundation was founded in July of 2014. And then the crowdsale was going through July, August, September. And then, yeah, the hiring—that first wave of—

**[08:00] SPEAKER_01:** We actually got some money to hire people was sort of, you know, September, October. So October—in October, I can't remember—I was negotiating with Aaron Buchanan, I remember. Right, right. My contact then. And then, I don't know when the Amsterdam office was actually funded, but I already visited Jeff, I think, later in that year there. So when I first kind of joined, I was really talking to myself with my friends in Hungary, and some of them related to this Facebook group, and among them like Dali, Fefe, and there was another person who was very close to Swarm later, but never actually entered the scene officially. Let him be unnamed. And so there was some thinking that maybe the four of us can form a group and we can just join as a kind of sub-DeFi team or something. It never happened. So we were just hired individually.

**[08:50] SPEAKER_00:** Yes. Later that year, there was DevCon 0. Is that correct? Yeah, yeah. I mean, if we just pop back a little bit—so through 2014, prior to the sale and so on, I mean, so how were things working early in 2014? I mean, you've mentioned a Skype group where—

**[09:10] SPEAKER_01:** You know, were most people kind of working through Skype? Yes, yes, yes. It was really mainly, mainly, everything was done by—basically by Gavin, Jeff, and the rest of us were just Sherpas in the way at the time. And then just tapping out. I mean, I'm talking about the technical stuff. I'm really not sure about the admin and the Foundation stuff. So I hope no offense is taken from anyone. But yeah, for tech stuff, it's—yeah. So I think it was actually in July that Jeff shared a kind of boy theme to do with me and kind of introduced me to the intricacies of the then aspiring DevP2P protocol. And so I think that was my first project, I think, that was really kind of in the codebase that I wrote it, which was then later scrapped and completely rewritten by Felix and the other guys. But that was my first attempt, I think, at kind of going to be a networking layer. At the time, I was kind of trying to say really crazy ideas to Jeff about some developer tooling—some like, you know, contract verification, and like staging and like fake blockchain environment and stuff. And it was other things to do, and it was focusing on like maybe the end-user applications—like the, what was it at the time? I think it was the ETH, ETH Go. I think it was under ETH Go, but it was actually later the Mist browser business. Right. It was a browser. And so he was kind of trying to talk me out of it and said that the other group, the C++ team, is assigned to that anyway, so let me not tread on unwanted paths. And so he kind of brought me back to—yeah. Well, I mean, you had Aleph—you had Alex Van de Sande, right—Alex Van de Sande, I guess, with an earlier kind of uh in connection of that. Yeah, that's good. And then but there was some, some kind of—not so glorious tasks as well—at the time, refactor logging and then things like this. I remember in the early days. But there was also a time when I was learning, learning GoLang, because that was also not the super popular language. There was a lot of learning to do.

**[11:00] SPEAKER_00:** I mean, it was relatively new at that point. So you'd mentioned the Yellow Paper. So in those very early months of 2014, Gav in particular seemed to be incredibly productive in terms of what he was getting through with the C++ client and that Yellow Paper. I mean, was it usually the code that was leading and then the Yellow Paper was being kind of modeled after that? It's hard for me to say if they really were that kind of hand-in-hand developing, I think.

**[11:20] SPEAKER_01:** I can't really tell. Maybe it's better to ask him, to be honest. But yes, the productivity and actually the speed that he was churning at code—absolutely stunning. It was a few months after—some of his clients already worked. Yeah, to be honest, I mean, Jeff was the same and Jeff was also incredible in his productivity. And those people were really, really nice example in front of me. So I was really happy to learn from them. Yeah. And I mean, I think that triangulation was so important, right—of having multiple clients and the spec.

**[11:50] SPEAKER_00:** And you had the Python client, though not really to that production status, but, you know, those three groups all, you know. There was a glorious—

**[12:00] SPEAKER_01:** Statement that, you know, Ethereum was very proud of that—like, this multi-client development was leading to very, very solid specs. It was actually true, but, of course, that was not the reason—but the reason was that all these brilliant individuals just followed their own favorite language and just wanted their own clients to be built. But, you know, I mean, ultimately what came out of it is amazing—like that the specification was really—I just remember just a few times that the specification had to be changed. There's like kind of one case when there's like a modular operation that was not good—not—exactly, it's a minus minus number—exactly, not sure exactly. There was another one when I think it was around Easter 2015, or before, in the year leading to the launch. And I think that was when it's kind of a problem that the anchor was ahead. The two anchors had the same timestamp, I think. And that led to a fork. I remember I wrote a kind of blog post about it.

**[12:50] SPEAKER_00:** Never, never, never published it, so it's interesting. Talking to Jakub Czepluk, so he was an intern at the Berlin office in 2015, but he was telling me about a hard fork that had happened on the mainnet around two weeks or so after launch, which I was completely unaware of. Um, but then looking back—I mean, you know, there was a sort of a security announcement by Yuta—it was a patching of the Geth client—and while I've been doing stuff myself in terms of like running old clients, I saw that as well. If you run Geth 1.0.0 or Geth 1.0.1, it gets stuck—it can't go through Frontier blocks. So it was actually a hard fork. Do you remember what it was related to? It was not that interesting that you remembered. I mean, it was some kind of gas counting or something. Just some kind of little bug. But that was funny. That was a thing that I was not aware about—because I, you know, so it was a hard fork, but it was never given a name because it was just an accident. And, uh, you know, you wonder how many more of these little things there were that happened that are sort of forgotten in the midst of time. But, um—but yeah, so, I mean, through that, through that early 2014 year, you were working initially on the C++ and then later on the Go. I mean, how many people were working on Go in 2014? I mean, it was really just a few people around Jeff. I think it was mainly Designer and Alex Van de Sande—from Brazil, and yeah, and phew—but you were the second team member then, is that right? Correct, just about. Maybe actually the first officially, I'm not sure. The first paid one, I'm not sure. But I mean, we came roughly at the same time with Alex and I think with Felix. Right. Yeah, in terms of employment. Yeah, but I meant when you were working earlier—you know, when you started there. I mean, were there other people working on that Go Ethereum ahead of your joining in with him? Not really, not really. So he was—I was pretty much among the ones that contributed and the core that inspired him. And it—I mean, there was quite a—quite a vibrant ecosystem of—yeah, like it was the vibrant community of people that like making—the data became slow. It was like Nick Savers around—like super tall little dude. And we were going together to the Bitcoin conference. I think it was in April. Yeah. Oh, you went to Toronto? No, no, it was in Amsterdam. Oh, okay. And that's when I just really talked to Vitalik quite a bit. It was very nice. And I got a big party this month, so it was a nice time. It was a nice time.

**[14:50] SPEAKER_00:** Nick Savers is a name that I've seen a lot of times. And I've never really met or spoken to him. I guess he was around a lot early and then maybe kind of disappeared out. And maybe he's a little bit of a non-guy that doesn't show his face. Yeah. I mean, he never joined. I don't think he was ever an official part of any team. But he was always there. Yeah, around and helping us. I think he was employed by some bank. But I saw he and some others did the first continuous integration. You know, they were doing the build system. Nice, nice. And then he did work on the Java client as well. That is true. And the Java client was mainly—

**[15:20] SPEAKER_01:** By, what was his name? Roman Mandl. That's correct, Roman Mandl. Kind of mysteriously disappeared after a few years. I'm not sure what happened to him. I did see him on Facebook for quite a time. He seems to have either disappeared or something since. I remember I spoke to him at the London DevCon—the DevCon 1. Definitely around there with the whole EthereumJ team. Yeah, I don't know what their name was—but EtherCamp, that's correct. Okay, thanks, thanks for reminding us. Well, nostalgic. So, yeah, it was early—early 2017, I think, that he kind of disappeared. They did Hacker Gold.

**[15:50] SPEAKER_00:** And, you know, this is some kind of like hackathon that there was some controversy about. It looked like the team kind of like bought votes, bought votes or something, but were paid out anyway. And then, yeah, he sort of disappeared with some people thinking he'd exit scammed. I'm not convinced he did. Because if he did, it was the worst, like, exit scam ever. Because it was so early. You know, like, it wasn't like anyone had got any kind of big amount of money or anything at that point. It was sort of a very poor scam. He was definitely unable.

**[16:15] SPEAKER_01:** Principles—so maybe. So you'd mentioned about—you mentioned about your sort of collaborative sort of sub-team—so that's—that's Ethosphere. Well, it's kind of—it was a wishful thinking that might be Ethosphere. But on the other hand, I did—I did register that as an organization on GitHub at least and even meant—yes, it—I think it was pretty much the—anyway, I mean, if I could call it a brand. I mean, I think at that time, it was only Aaron Injustice who was—right, yeah, Harris—who later became Monax. This is Marmot, Marmot. And they did some nice work, by the way. But yes, Ethosphere was, yeah, the home of maybe most of our work. And then you can commit through that to the codebase. So that was yourself, Daniel Nagy, Zolt Felföldi. Yes, Zolt Felföldi, yeah—like already hired to work on the light client. It was in 2015 already. And, uh, yeah, because he was not on DevCon 0, but yeah, DevCon 0 was already confirmed. And it's very—so for Danny and me joining—by that time, there was quite a bit of—quite a bit of pass around with him, I think. So maybe, could you say a bit about Swarm? Because my understanding is that some of the ideas that went an awful long way back. Yeah. So I don't know if you remember, there was in May, May 2014, there was a seminar—trial of talks in the—I think it was in Whitechapel somewhere, or somewhere in East London. And in that talk, that was the first appearance of VAP3 in the Ethereum context. It was usually explained, and the founders really realized how decentralization can basically also be extended then to support the entire—be the backend of the entire web. And basically, if you extend it to the data—app data—and then hosting, and to basically put the data layer on top, and then maybe the messaging, then you can conceive of it as the world computer with this holy trinity—you know, you can see them like the Ethereum blockchain as the world computer's CPU, and the storage—Swarm—would be the disk, and then Whisper would be the messaging layers. So you were mentioning Whitechapel—so that was—

**[18:00] SPEAKER_00:** Again, some meetups, was it? Yes, yes. And I think maybe Theo even had some sort of co-working or some sort of high-end office there, maybe a room or two, because I very often found Vitalik there. So I'm not entirely sure how this works out. I don't want to say anything. Would that have been—

**[18:10] SPEAKER_01:** There were a lot of internal meetings as well.

**[18:12] SPEAKER_00:** Would that have been when that kind of famous diagram would first have surfaced? You know, the one with like the circle and the apps coming in at the side? Yes, that was just about that time, yeah. Including QML, I saw. So it was not just HTML, it was QML and Qt as other anticipated tech platforms.

**[18:25] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, so that's when Web3 was born, and it's kind of the crazy protocol names like ETH, which is also kind of this letter in Icelandic. Oh yeah, the thorn.

**[18:32] SPEAKER_00:** Yes, exactly. And so that's when this—and then was invented also Metropolis gimmicks—the—those Ethereum—well, the sub-protocols, right—protocols running on a common basis, but Ethereum was just one of one of many related protocols.

**[18:45] SPEAKER_01:** And that's why I was very dedicated to this whole Ethereum at the time. I really kind of understood what it means to have the entire kind of Turing-complete computation being secured on its own with the blockchain. And I kind of really envisioned quite a change in how the internet works if you have Swarm and then Whisper and all these things. So I quite liked the idea. And then later I kind of learned that you know, not only did they socialize on BitTorrent at the time, but actually some of us, like Dani, operating a DC++ node, had some legal troubles. Maybe we can also kind of talk about this with him at some point. So that's kind of brought us—so Go team quite directly into the realm of implementing Swarm—this idea of a decentralized storage and maybe incentivization, etc. And a neighbor solution connected—and Zoltan mentioned to me that he thought that the idea for Swarm had gone back to at least 2011? Yeah, so there was this idea of—I mean, of course, I don't know about that, but it was mainly done in his idea that if he—I mean, he saw the amazing works of BitTorrent, they also saw some drawbacks. So maybe historically it's best to derive the whole idea of Swarm from them. And because BitTorrent was—it had difficulty like starting a download, with all this kind of throttling moves, and of course didn't have the proper incentives to keep the data. And also, of course, had the problem with the individual bits of the file not being addressable right away. You had to use a tracker to resolve them. And, of course, that's also a problem with how much previously there is in the balance. Because, I mean, as you remember, you know, example in—in Germany—there was legal prosecution for who—who used to be torrent. Oh, I didn't know that. And I mean, not that time, but I mean much later—but uh, yeah. So I think what Dani was trying to do is give an idea of how to chunk things—in a way, every chunk is kind of content-addressable. And also kind of that some of the placement of chunks is also part of the DHT. So normally a DHT—like a decentralized hash table—is basically the idea that you put node IDs and then kind of chunk or ideas of content, basically, in the same space, and somehow you get information with location—like who to download it from—about these chunks from the neighborhoods that have the same address, or like—yeah, similar address. So there's usually a metric on this, if you use the logarithmic method—distance like that. Then you can work with the academia, and then it's academia networks—you—you—you kind of iterate through the peers—like you keep a few peers connected and you call them away, so do you know closer one to this guy, to this guy, and when this guy is like the hash of Star Wars, and you want to watch Star Wars, and then you call them up, and ultimately you see where the chunks are we can download from. So obviously this is not very private, so. And then, and also kind of, it's not very—as you know from this kind of legal problems—that it's also not very really deniable. So if you—and if you have a—if you kind of enforce certain chunks should reside, so you kind of enforce a kind of layer on top of it, then you can possibly deny that you know anything about it. It's just a system that enforces parts of the Star Wars story. Basically, it was done as a genius idea that I think we call it the DPA—Decentralized Preimage Archive. It's basically an archive of pre-images. Pre-images is a piece of data that the image of which is the hash—yet, the pre-image is what's before the hashing—the actual piece of the data. And so this idea of actually storing not the location, but the actual data at the place in the DHT—has direct DHT interpretation—was the DPA. And that was kind of a very important, very important notion that came and then became very important in this form. And then, yeah, and then a lot of other things came. So I remember when we were in the 2010s—in 2015 or 14, I'm not sure. And in the winter, they were sitting in the Arena Plaza in Budapest—the three of us—with Fefe—talking about this and how to start implementing it. Because there was a pressure to obviously implement the whole thing using UDP as the networking stack, because it was considered that TCP is too heavy and too slow. But then obviously that at the time we already had the DevP2P protocol—it's very, very easy to implement it and then try this protocol. So I suggested that we should instead of using UDP, just use TCP, but use it for forwarding—keep alive some connections—these are connections, these are permanent connections—with the PSN, and just use the cadamia with the through the live connections that each forwarding—like, in which locally decide to forward to the closer node, and ultimately backward—like if you forward the request and you backward the chunk. And so it was—it seemed like very easy to implement, and we did exactly that. Turned out to be one of the best and most interesting choices of Swarm. It turns out that that's what allows peer-to-peer accounting to be working, and also gives the privacy features that Swarm has. This is—in this case, the originator of the request—if you think about it—no one knows that when someone there is asking you something, that they want to watch Star Wars or someone upstream wants to watch Star Wars. It directly solved the opportunity caching problem—how to distribute automatically popular content—retrieval paths—all the forwarding nodes can just remember some chunks. It's very interesting how these ideas started. And then basically we kind of coalesced in 2016. So I think the first—the very first release of Phil Wittich in Geth 1.5. It was in—I'm not sure of the—one second. So it was a—it was December 2016, it was. Yes. And this Alpha Public pilot was released. And I remember there was already—there was already kind of how we viewed video. We call it streaming, but it's actually not real-time streaming. It's like just a—just a watched video file. There was nice tweets about that too.

**[23:00] SPEAKER_00:** And just to just take a step back—so, I mean, my understanding of a primary thought that there was with Swarm was that because you could have this—you know, the holy trinity—right—of sort of like decentralized compute—the database, the blockchain—Swarm for the decentralized—you know, decentralized file system and storage—and then Whisper for that decentralized messaging—that you could have this really nice kind of synergy of—say, a primary issue which is still really not solved—of saying, well, how do you like host the web front end, right? You know, to make a whole application—yes, you need your smart contracts and your transactions and things—but you need like an application wrapping around that. So really the thought that if you had a decentralized storage mechanism that could store like the HTML and the JavaScript and so on—that you want—like, an incentive system so that that stuff is available if people want it—you know, that you don't have a tragedy of the commons where only most popular content is available. But also, because—if you are building on Ethereum, you've got the cryptocurrency to do the incentives. You've got the smart contract system that allows you to implement those intensive incentive systems. And all of these things can fit together into a holistic, unstoppable whole of saying, oh, here you go. You've got your applications, which cannot be stopped. But that's the full stack.

**[24:00] SPEAKER_01:** And it seems even now that there's an awful lot of stuff which is dependent on centralized hosted services. And it's very sensible. Yeah, I am pretty sad about this, to be honest. I mean, there's a lot of these things. I don't know if you remember this big—I don't know—was it BitGo? That lost the biggest crypto heist ever because of the Safe—whatever. But if that had been using Swarm, then it must be much more difficult to change all these kind of transactions under the hood, because what they had to do is they hacked the person—the dev's account—and then uploaded something through S3, which then made the Safe wallet used. And of course these are much more difficult to do if these things are—the content address—is of course registered. So this is how these things work—like, you know, you start from the blockchain, which starts seeing the source of truth—ENS or services as a name. You resolve it to content hash, and then the content hash is retrieved from the Swarm, from these decentralized stores. And I mean, again, that 2016 kind of era was when ENS was coming to life as well. So, yeah, I mean, that's another important part. Actually, Nick Johnson was first part of the Swarm team. As part of the Swarm team, he developed the ENS, and then later took off, and then he pivoted to the ENS. I didn't know he worked on Swarm. I knew he was part of the Geth team, but he did some Swarm as well, eh? Well, definitely. I recruited him, to be honest. Fantastic. Did you know him in London? No, no, no. I mean, he was just part of the community. He was a very, very valuable contribution to the community.

**[25:30] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, to Swarm. Yeah, let me just check the timeline. But I think he got hired really pretty soon after me. I started in February 2016, and I think he was maybe June. Same kind of time as Hudson. Yeah. Let's see. So, yeah, I started in February. Greg Colvin in March. Everton Fraga in April. And, yeah, June—both Hudson and Jamie Picks and Nick Johnson. All June 2016. Yeah. What was I going to mention? So yeah, you talked about DevCon 0. So that was November 2014 in Berlin. I imagine, was that the first time that you will have met quite a number of these people? Absolutely. Especially memorable is my meeting with Alex Leverington.

**[26:10] SPEAKER_01:** Oh, yes. Yeah. Very interesting. We had lots of discussions. Yeah. He was very adamant and very stubborn with his own way of thinking about the protocol. I have to say, he was much more knowledgeable than I was at the time, so I was trying to learn a lot from him. But at the same time, I was always trying to be a bit more pragmatic and trying to be savvy, and then I have to simplify. And I remember I was first basically wrote together the kind of specs for the—for that—uh—yeah, that's it—with protocol—and then—and then you know that was not really followed just right. Yeah, it was a very interesting time.

**[26:40] SPEAKER_00:** Well, I mean, the other piece there is that libp2p, as part of the Protocol Labs, IPFS, that already existed at that time. So that was kind of interesting, right? This whole DevP2P, libp2p. I mean, you know how Ethereum kind of suffered from it—like this kind of—"not invented here" syndrome? Not invented here syndrome. Thank you, thank you.

**[26:55] SPEAKER_01:** And like, you know, the RLP, RLPx stuff. Right. Then we have their own serialization protocol—like the DevP2P as well. But I have to say, the DevP2P at some point was kind of a lean protocol—right, excellent for the purposes of including it in this form—for example, it's a lot less bloated. But of course it had a lot of problems in terms of maintenance—it was just not appropriate to start like Saturn and build everything from scratch. In the way it's—like, in retrospect, it was probably not the best idea—to be honest—but hey.

**[27:25] SPEAKER_00:** And I mean, that's got stuck in the execution clients forever. You know, the consensus clients now are using libp2p and aren't using RLP anymore. But the execution client got stuck with DevP2P forever. And I mean, I remember having discussions with various people on this in sort of 2016 of saying, well, you could have both protocols—you know, people looking at sort of could you do a bridge protocol so that some of the stuff could run over libp2p and you can have like relay nodes—really with the thought that you—like, libp2p you could run in a browser, right? You