**[00:03] SPEAKER_00:** So hello, I am Bob Summerwill, and this is Early Days of Ethereum, with my good friend Victor Tron. So hi Victor, how are you?

**[01:00] SPEAKER_01:** Not exactly. I wouldn't say I was exactly very close to the crypto scene, to be honest. I was working on a project with BBC News Labs, basically a “news juice” project. We were trying to ingest a lot of news sources, like old photo archives, video archives, and everything, and “juice” it—basically work through the speech recognition and everything, categorize it, and make it searchable in a very nice way. Of course, it was one of these kind of BBC-sponsored projects no one really needed and it was never really used, but it was a nice project to work on. Anyway, I left the job at that time. You were in London, you were living in London? So yeah, I was in London, I was living in London, and I left the job because I found Ethereum. I was very excited right away. I guess it was when Gavin visited this kind of “new web” meetup—sorry, I think it was a New Web meetup—and then presented Ethereum. I was absolutely taken aback, and I thought it was amazing and a game changer. What led me to it, to be honest, was already quite a bit into Bitcoin, which is kind of interesting, because Bitcoin came into my life through a friend who I knew from an anarchist club, or like a Facebook group basically. He introduced me to it on ideological grounds, but of course I was very interested in the tech as well. But it took me quite a while to understand what a blockchain is, how all these things come together. By that time I was kind of solid in understanding the blockchain, and my knowledge was solid enough so that I could question Gavin and then Vitalik, and say, “That is absolutely not going to work,” obviously, because of this whole problem. Bit by bit, when I understood that they all had answers to every question that I could ever think of, then that’s when I got convinced that they’re probably the geniuses I really can look up to and have in my biography to learn from. It was a very, very great start. When Gavin presented Ethereum, the next day I was already hacking on the C++ codebase actually, and had my first PR in. We met in a cafe in Dalston, I think. And I remember it was quite impressive that I learned he was using a Mac, but actually running Linux on it. It was very impressive already.

**[04:26] SPEAKER_00:** And so you mentioned your anarchist group there. So had Bitcoin earlier been interesting to you from that kind of monetary—

**[04:43] SPEAKER_01:** You know, anarchist libertarian—I have to say yes. When Bitcoin came, this was the time when I learned what money really was. Before, I didn’t even grasp this notion. It was a very important time in my life and it was really a game changer to have a framework in which I could totally identify myself. Libertarian, I don’t know if it’s the right word, but I really like this kind of Austrian view of economy. I understood how our money was used and what inflation was, which I never really understood before. It was okay, I came late to the game, let’s say. But yeah, and then it was all very—

**[05:45] SPEAKER_00:** Was a history after. And the Next Web meeting that you mentioned, was that like a recurring meetup that you were going to, or were you regularly going to kind of web meetups?

**[06:13] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, but this one particularly—I saw that because I saw Vitalik’s presentation in Miami. That really got me interested, so I knew what I was in for, and I went and showed up for that meeting in Hoxton Square, I think it was, that meeting. Sorry, you said Vitalik’s presentation, was that the one that he’d given in Miami? Yes, exactly, Miami conference. So I knew already what I expected from it, but of course I never really understood, and Gavin helped me quite a bit to understand it. So it was really great.

**[07:10] SPEAKER_00:** Were you watching a variety of Bitcoin conference talks? Was that a sort of regular thing that you were doing at that point, watching YouTube?

**[07:33] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, at the time I was very, very interested and very much into these things. I was hoping that changes related to these technologies would come a lot earlier. I was already caught in the hype a bit, or contributed to it myself in a way.

**[07:10] SPEAKER_00:** Had you been sort of following along with things like MasterCoin and Colored Coins and other sort of Bitcoin 2.0 projects?

**[07:33] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, actually I did, yeah. It was BitShares at the point. I’m sorry? It was BitShares, I think. Oh, yeah, yeah. And there was this kind of—and then Open Transactions, which was very close to Gavin’s heart, I think. We worked together. I don’t know what came out of that after all, but it’s interesting. After I left the BBC, that winter I spent in Thailand, half in a retreat, and then in my spare time I was working on the Yellow Paper and my way through the really hard notation and getting it on paper.

**[08:34] SPEAKER_00:** Yes, a lot of people struggled with that sort of math-heavy notation. And so you went to Gav’s presentation, which would have been very early February. That was only like a week or so after Vitalik’s presentation in Miami. It would have been very, very close. So you spoke to Gav there and then you exchanged emails, did you?

**[08:56] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, basically. We exchanged emails. He put me on a Skype group. There was a Skype group at the time—maybe 20-odd people on it, really. Not a big crowd. That’s how it all started. It was very nice in the beginning to have these really grandiose ideas and chat and be part of it. I’m super proud and very happy that I managed to be at the—

**[09:29] SPEAKER_00:** It’s kind of a lucky move, to be honest. So was it a fair bit later in that year that you started working with Daniel on Swarm?

**[09:46] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, then it came a little bit later. First of all, in the spring I started working on the Yellow Paper and then a bit on the C++, but not a lot. I think it was in March or sometime that I showed up on the first Ethereum meetup—maybe not the first. I think you told me it was not the first, but the second one.

**[11:35] SPEAKER_00:** In London, this is?

**[12:03] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, yes, yes. This was organized by Stéphane Tual. Stéphane Tual was there. There was a Mihai there, who later came—Năkăşa, I think. Sorry, Mihai was there, right? Yes, yes. And I think who I talked to quite a lot was Jack du Rose. Yeah, of Colony. Colony fame, exactly. And that is when I met Jeff first. Jeff became my boss later. He came to London for that meetup? Yes, yes, he did. So I saw it’s quite an international crowd from all over the world doing these things. I took it very seriously. I’d left my job and then joined the ranks, and I started contributing to the Go code. After that I was really into Go. That’s where I contributed most and became part of the Go Ethereum team. Jeff offered this job around September/October that year, when the Foundation was already—

**[11:35] SPEAKER_00:** Actually paying out some salaries, or recruiting people on the teams. Yeah. I was looking at the timing on that. So the Ethereum Foundation was founded in July of 2014. And then the crowdsale was going through July, August, September. And then the hiring, that first wave of “we’ve actually got some money to hire people” was sort of September/October.

**[12:03] SPEAKER_01:** In October, I can’t remember, I was negotiating with Aeron Buchanan, I remember. My contact then. I don’t know when the Amsterdam office was actually funded, but I already visited Jeff later in that year there. When I first joined, I was really talking to my friends in Hungary, and some of them related to this Facebook group, and among them like Dali, Fefe, and there was another person who was very close to Swarm later, but never entered the scene officially—let him be unnamed. There was some thinking that maybe the four of us can form a group and just join as a kind of sub-dev team or something. It never happened. We were hired individually.

**[13:17] SPEAKER_00:** Yes. Later that year, there was ÐΞFCON-0. Is that correct? Yeah. If we just pop back a little bit: through 2014, prior to the sale and so on—how were things working early in 2014? You mentioned a Skype group where—were most people kind of working through Skype?

**[13:45] SPEAKER_01:** Yes. Mainly everything was done by Gavin, Jeff, and the rest of us were just sherpas at the time—just tapping out. I’m talking about the technical stuff. I’m not sure about the admin and the Foundation stuff, so I hope no offense is taken from anyone. But for tech stuff, yes. I think it was actually in July that Jeff shared a kind of bounty with me and introduced me to the intricacies of the then-aspiring devp2p protocol. That was my first project in the codebase that I wrote, which was later scrapped and completely rewritten by Félix and the other guys. But that was my first attempt at a networking layer. At the time, I was trying to pitch really crazy ideas to Jeff about developer tooling—contract verification, staging, fake blockchain environment and stuff. There were other things to do, and we were focusing on end-user applications like the—what was it at the time? I think it was ETH Go. I think it was under ETH Go, but it was later the Mist browser business. It was a browser. He was trying to talk me out of it and said the other group, the C++ team, is assigned to that anyway, so let me not tread on unwanted paths. He brought me back to—yeah. There were some not-so-glorious tasks as well: refactor logging and things like this, I remember in the early days. There was also a time when I was learning Go, because that was not a super popular language. There was a lot of learning to do.

**[16:52] SPEAKER_00:** It was relatively new at that point. You’d mentioned the Yellow Paper. In those very early months of 2014, Gav in particular seemed to be incredibly productive in terms of what he was getting through with the C++ client and that Yellow Paper. Was it usually the code that was leading and then the Yellow Paper was being modeled after that?

**[17:35] SPEAKER_01:** It’s hard for me to say if they were really developing hand-in-hand. I can’t really tell. Maybe it’s better to ask him. But yes, the productivity and the speed that he was churning out code—absolutely stunning. It was a few months after that some of his client already worked. Jeff was the same and Jeff was also incredible in his productivity. Those people were a really nice example in front of me. I was happy to learn from them.

**[18:19] SPEAKER_00:** I think that triangulation was so important, right—having multiple clients and the spec. You had the Python client, though not really to production status, but those three groups all—

**[18:32] SPEAKER_01:** There was a glorious statement that Ethereum was very proud of: multi-client development was leading to very solid specs. It was true, but of course that was not the reason. The reason was that all these brilliant individuals just followed their own favorite language and wanted their own clients to be built. Ultimately what came out of it is amazing: the specification was really solid. I remember just a few times that the specification had to be changed. There’s one case with a modulo operation that was not good—minus number, not sure exactly. Another one was around Easter 2015, or before, in the year leading to launch. I think that was a problem that the ancestor was ahead: the two ancestors had the same timestamp, I think, and that led to a fork. I remember I wrote a kind of blog post about it, never published it, so it’s interesting.

**[19:49] SPEAKER_00:** Talking to Jakub Czepluch—he was an intern at the Berlin office in 2015—he was telling me about a hard fork that had happened on mainnet around two weeks or so after launch, which I was completely unaware of. Looking back, there was a security announcement by Yuta, patching Geth. While I’ve been doing stuff myself in terms of running old clients, I saw that as well. If you run Geth 1.0.0 or Geth 1.0.1, it gets stuck. It can’t go through Frontier blocks. So it was actually a hard fork. Do you remember what it was related to?

**[22:13] SPEAKER_01:** It was not that interesting. It was some kind of gas counting or some little bug. It was funny. That was a thing I was not aware about, because it was a hard fork, but it was never given a name because it was just an accident. You wonder how many more of these little things happened that are forgotten in the midst of time. Through early 2014 you were working initially on the C++ and then later on the Go. How many people were working on Go in 2014? It was really just a few people around Jeff. I think it was mainly me, and Alex van de Sande from Brazil, and phew.

**[23:52] SPEAKER_00:** But you were the second team member then, is that right?

**[24:48] SPEAKER_01:** Correct, just about. Maybe actually the first officially, I’m not sure. The first paid one, I’m not sure. We came roughly at the same time with Alex and I think with Félix in terms of employment. But earlier, when you started, were there other people working on Go Ethereum ahead of your joining? Not really. He was—Jeff and then I was among the ones that contributed and the core that inspired him. There was a vibrant community around. Nick Szabo was around—super tall little dude—and we were going together to the Bitcoin conference, I think in April. Oh, you went to Toronto? No, it was in Amsterdam. That’s when I talked to Vitalik quite a bit. It was very nice. We had a big party this month. It was a nice time.

**[23:52] SPEAKER_00:** Nick Szabo is a name that I’ve seen a lot of times. And I’ve never really met or spoken to him. I guess he was around a lot early and then maybe disappeared out, and maybe he’s a little bit of a non-guy that doesn’t show his face.

**[24:48] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. He never joined. I don’t think he was ever an official part of any team, but he was always there, around and helping us. I think he was employed by some bank. He and some others did the first continuous integration. They were doing the build system.

**[23:52] SPEAKER_00:** Nice. And then he did work on the Java client as well.

**[24:48] SPEAKER_01:** That is true. And the Java client was mainly by—what was his name—Roman Mandeleil.

**[25:41] SPEAKER_00:** That’s correct, Roman Mandeleil. Kind of mysteriously disappeared after a few years. I’m not sure what happened to him. I did see him on Facebook for quite a time. He seems to have either disappeared or something since.

**[26:27] SPEAKER_01:** I remember I spoke to him at the London ÐΞFCON, the ÐΞFCON-1. Definitely around there with the whole EthereumJ team. I don’t know what their name was.

**[25:41] SPEAKER_00:** Ether.Camp.

**[26:27] SPEAKER_01:** That’s correct. Thanks, thanks for reminding me. Nostalgic. Early 2017 I think he disappeared. They did Hacker Gold, some kind of hackathon with controversy. It looked like the team bought votes or something, but were paid out anyway. Then he disappeared, with some people thinking he exit scammed. I’m not convinced he did. If he did, it was the worst exit scam ever. It was so early. It wasn’t like anyone got big money at that point. It was a very poor scam.

**[26:27] SPEAKER_01:** He was definitely unable—principles. Maybe. So you mentioned your sort of collaborative sub-team, that’s Ethersphere.

**[25:41] SPEAKER_00:** Well, it was wishful thinking that might be Ethersphere?

**[26:27] SPEAKER_01:** On the other hand, I did register that as an organization on GitHub at least. It pretty much was the—if I could call it a brand. At that time, it was only Aeron “Injustice” who was—

**[25:41] SPEAKER_00:** Right, yeah, who later became Monax.

**[26:27] SPEAKER_01:** Marmot. They did some nice work, by the way. Ethersphere was the home of maybe most of our work. We were committing through that to the codebase. That was myself, Daniel Nagy, Zolt Fefelde.

**[25:41] SPEAKER_00:** Yes, Zolt Fefelde. He was already hired to work on the light client in 2015. He was not on ÐΞFCON-0. But ÐΞFCON-0 was already confirmed. For Daniel and me joining, by that time there was quite a bit of back and forth, I think. Could you say a bit about Swarm? My understanding is some ideas went a long way back.

**[26:27] SPEAKER_01:** I don’t know if you remember, in May 2014 there was a seminar, a trail of talks in Whitechapel somewhere, or somewhere in East London. In that talk, that was the first appearance of “Web3” in the Ethereum context. It was explained, and the founders realized how decentralization can be extended to support the entire backend of the web. If you extend it to the data—app data—and hosting, and put the data layer on top, and then maybe messaging, then you can conceive of it as the world computer with this holy trinity: the Ethereum blockchain as the world computer’s CPU, and the working disk would be Swarm, and Whisper would be the messaging layer.

**[30:15] SPEAKER_00:** You mentioned Whitechapel. That was some meetups?

**[30:45] SPEAKER_01:** Yes. I think maybe they even had some sort of co-working or some high-end office there, maybe a room or two, because I very often found Vitalik there. I’m not sure how it worked out. There were a lot of internal meetings as well.

**[30:15] SPEAKER_00:** Would that have been when that famous diagram would first have surfaced? The one with the circle and the apps coming in at the side?

**[30:45] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, just about that time. Including QML, I saw. Not just HTML—QML and Qt as other anticipated tech platforms. That’s when Web3 was born, and the crazy protocol names like ÐΞTH, which is also this letter in Icelandic.

**[31:06] SPEAKER_00:** Oh yeah, the thorn.

**[31:32] SPEAKER_01:** Yes. That’s when this was invented, and also Vitalik’s gimmicks: those Ethereum sub-protocols—protocols running on a common basis, but Ethereum was just one of many related protocols. That’s why I was very dedicated to the whole Ethereum at the time. I understood what it means to have Turing-complete computation secured with the blockchain. I envisioned quite a change in how the internet works if you have Swarm and Whisper and all these things. I liked the idea. Later I learned they also based it on BitTorrent at the time. Some of us, like Dani, operating a DC++ node, had some legal troubles. Maybe we can talk about that with him at some point. That brought us directly into implementing Swarm: decentralized storage and maybe incentivization, neighborhood solutions. Zolt told me he thought the idea for Swarm had gone back to at least 2011. There was this idea—of course, I don’t know about that—but historically it’s best to derive Swarm from BitTorrent. BitTorrent had difficulty starting a download, all the throttling moves, and didn’t have proper incentives to keep the data. It also had the problem with the individual bits of the file not being addressable right away: you had to use a tracker to resolve them. That’s also a problem with legal enforcement. As you remember, in Germany, there was legal prosecution for people who used torrents.

**[40:50] SPEAKER_00:** I didn’t know that.

**[42:39] SPEAKER_01:** I mean, not that time, but much later. Dani’s idea was to chunk things so every chunk is content-addressable. Some placement of chunks is part of the DHT. Normally a DHT—distributed hash table—is the idea that you put node IDs and content IDs in the same space and somehow you get information about where to download from, from neighborhoods that have similar addresses. Usually there is a metric: if you use logarithmic distance, like Kademlia. You iterate through peers: you keep a few peers connected and call them “away”—do you know a closer one to this hash? If the hash is “Star Wars” and you want to watch Star Wars, you call them up and ultimately you see where the chunks are and download from. Obviously this is not very private, and also not very deniable. If you enforce certain chunks should reside, a layer on top of it, then you can possibly deny that you know anything about it. It’s just a system that enforces parts of the Star Wars story. It was done as a genius idea that I think we called the DPA, the Decentralized Preimage Archive: an archive of preimages. A preimage is the data before hashing. This idea of storing not the location, but the actual data at the place in the DHT—direct DHT interpretation—was the DPA. That became very important in Swarm. A lot of other things came. I remember when we were in the 2014/2015 era—winter—we were sitting in the Arena Plaza in Budapest, the three of us with Fefe, talking about this and how to start implementing it. There was pressure to implement the whole thing using UDP as the networking stack, because TCP was considered too heavy and too slow. But at the time we already had the devp2p protocol, it was easy to implement and try this protocol. I suggested we should instead of UDP just use TCP, but use it for forwarding, keep-alive permanent connections with the peers, and just use Kademlia through the live connections, each forwarding locally deciding to forward to the closer node, and ultimately backward: forward the request and backward the chunk. It seemed easy, and we did exactly that. It turned out to be one of the best and most interesting choices of Swarm. That’s what allows peer-to-peer accounting to work and gives privacy features Swarm has. In this case, the originator of the request—no one knows that when someone is asking you something, they want to watch Star Wars, or someone upstream wants to watch Star Wars. It solved the opportunity caching problem: automatically distributing popular content along retrieval paths, all the forwarding peers can remember some chunks. It’s very interesting how these ideas started. We coalesced in 2016. The first release of Swarm within Geth 1.5, I’m not sure—December 2016 it was. This alpha public pilot was released. I remember we viewed video. We called it streaming, but it’s not real-time streaming—just watching a video file. There were nice tweets about that too.

**[40:50] SPEAKER_00:** Just to take a step back: my understanding of a primary thought with Swarm was the holy trinity—decentralized compute: the blockchain; Swarm for decentralized file system and storage; Whisper for decentralized messaging—so you could have synergy. A primary issue still not solved is hosting the web front end. You need smart contracts, transactions, but you need the HTML and JavaScript and so on. The thought was: a decentralized storage mechanism could store that, and you want incentives so that’s available. You don’t want a tragedy of the commons where only popular content is available. Also, because building on Ethereum, you’ve got the cryptocurrency for incentives, and smart contracts to implement incentive systems. All of these fit together into an unstoppable whole: your applications cannot be stopped. That’s the full stack.

**[42:39] SPEAKER_01:** I’m pretty sad about how much is still dependent on centralized hosted services. There’s a lot of these things. I don’t know if you remember the big—was it Bitbase?—that lost the biggest crypto heist ever because of the Safe, whatever. If that had been using Swarm, it would be much more difficult to change transactions under the hood, because they hacked the dev’s account and uploaded something through S3, which then made the Safe wallet used. These are much more difficult if content addressing is registered. This is how these things work: you start from the blockchain as the source of truth, ENS or services as a name, you resolve it to a content hash, and then the content hash is retrieved from Swarm, from decentralized stores. That 2016 era was when ENS was coming to life as well. Another important part: Nick Johnson was first part of the Swarm team. As part of Swarm, he developed ENS, then later took off and pivoted to ENS.

**[44:53] SPEAKER_00:** I didn’t know he worked on Swarm. I knew he was part of the Geth team, but he did some Swarm as well?

**[46:16] SPEAKER_01:** Definitely. I recruited him, to be honest.

**[44:53] SPEAKER_00:** Fantastic. Did you know him in London?

**[46:16] SPEAKER_01:** No, he was just part of the community. He was a very valuable contribution.

**[44:53] SPEAKER_00:** Let me check timeline. I started in February 2016. Greg Colvin in March. Everton Fraga in April. And June: both Hudson and Jamie Pitts and Nick Johnson. So yeah, June 2016. You talked about ÐΞFCON-0, November 2014 in Berlin. Was that the first time you met many of these people?

**[46:16] SPEAKER_01:** Absolutely. Especially memorable was meeting Alex Leverington. We had lots of discussions. He was very adamant and stubborn with his own way of thinking about the protocol. He was much more knowledgeable than I was at the time, so I tried to learn a lot from him. But I tried to be more pragmatic and simplify. I remember I first wrote together the specs for the devp2p protocol. That was not really followed.

**[47:06] SPEAKER_00:** The other piece there is libp2p, as part of Protocol Labs / IPFS, that already existed at that time. Devp2p vs libp2p. Ethereum suffered from “not invented here syndrome.” RLPx, then our own serialization protocol, RLP, and devp2p.

**[47:36] SPEAKER_01:** Devp2p at some point was a lean protocol, excellent for the purposes of including it in Swarm. It was less bloated. But it had problems in maintenance. In retrospect it was probably not the best idea to build everything from scratch, but hey.

**[48:21] SPEAKER_00:** That got stuck in the execution clients forever. Consensus clients now use libp2p and aren’t using RLP anymore, but execution clients got stuck with devp2p forever. I remember discussions in 2016 about bridges: could you have both protocols, run some stuff over libp2p, relay nodes, and with libp2p you could run in a browser, devp2p you could never run in a browser. I was working with someone from Parity, maybe Robert, around 2017/2018, trying to get a light client in browser talking to all these things, but it never happened. Some decisions last forever.

**[50:21] SPEAKER_01:** It was only after we left the Foundation that we switched to libp2p as well, because when we started the Bee client development.

**[52:04] SPEAKER_00:** I wasn’t aware that transition had happened. Through those early years prior to mainnet launch, you mentioned work on the Yellow Paper. How was it being determined what “feature complete” or “good enough” looked like? Did you have an idea of what had to be built before launch?

**[55:49] SPEAKER_01:** I didn’t have a clear idea. It took me a while to understand the full system. Only Jeff really knew what needed to be built. He built massive things single-handedly. I was assigned the task of building the block pool, which was supposed to take blocks from the other clients, build up the header chain, validate it, etc. I worked a lot on that, and every time he had enough and said, “Okay, I just build it,” and basically one or two days and it was done. Interesting experience. And Christoph Jentzsch was building the cross-client tests as well.

**[57:27] SPEAKER_00:** Did you work with those tests yourselves?

**[57:56] SPEAKER_01:** No, I didn’t, but I remember he was always running them.

**[57:27] SPEAKER_00:** In July 2015 we had the arrival of Ming Chan, and shortly afterwards pretty serious budget cuts. The Foundation had burned through most of the money. “Austerities,” I think was the official name.

**[57:56] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I remember. Vitalik basically said that Swarm is not going to be shipped, what’s going to be is maybe use IPFS and start to work on an incentive system that we can put on that. I remember that. Maybe it’s not a secret anymore, but Jeff let us keep working on Swarm from this period, so we did. There was a ready incentivization scheme for bandwidth incentives. Swarm seems to be one of the only decentralized storage systems that has proper bandwidth incentives and proper accounting: peer-to-peer accounting. It doesn’t look like there’s any other proper way to do this. Bandwidth is instant gratification: you forward a request or not. It’s not a future promise like storage, where you record your deal on-chain and proofs of availability. With bandwidth, it seems easier: I forward for you, you forward for me, we relay for each other, and if there’s a big tilt then some settlement. There’s also this checkbook idea: an early version of a payment channel / micropayment solution. Bandwidth incentive was powerful and lived on. Storage incentivization was much more difficult: pricing, growth, responsibility, privacy, whether everything recorded on-chain. It came much later, only after the SWARM token was released in 2021. So going back: austerities. You were continuing to work through late 2015 even though it had supposedly been defunded? Yes, kind of. We were trying to figure out incentives, so in that sense we were off track. I was also working on the Ethereum client, Geth, on many aspects. By 2017, Swarm got integrated, released within Ethereum. It was 2018 when Proof of Concept 3 release was part of Geth. When Swarm client was starting out, we started a standalone Swarm client starting 2018.

**[1:03:41] SPEAKER_00:** All the way through until that point, you were continuing to work as a Geth team member?

**[1:04:12] SPEAKER_01:** Yes. Officially we were part of the Geth team, part of the Amsterdam entity. Slowly extending the team as the protocol got some movement. In 2016, after Nick Johnson left, we hired other people. That’s when I emerged as team leader organically, trying to put together the threads.

**[1:03:41] SPEAKER_00:** With the Swarm Foundation, how and when did that happen? How did you leave the Geth team?

**[1:04:12] SPEAKER_01:** 2018 summer, I and a person called Albert came and started to offer help for Swarm. They asked what we need. They seemed helpful.

**[1:03:41] SPEAKER_00:** Albert Ni?

**[1:04:12] SPEAKER_01:** Yes. He joined the Ethereum Foundation at the same time as Aya Miyaguchi. Aya was very helpful and tried to solve staffing problems. Negotiations started. After Prague we got into serious discussions. At the last day of Devcon Prague, we submitted the proposal for immediate funding. I never got serious feedback on that. There were issues with Sean O’Connor, a point of contact delegated by Aya. Slowly after that, EF’s goals changed and teams needed to submit a roadmap proposal and all kinds of things. The scheme started to graduate protocols out of the Foundation. That happened with Swarm. 2019 there was a Swarm Summit in Madrid. Very successful. We had partnerships and subscribed to some monetary help. The Foundation promised to back it up. Somehow that never happened, so we resorted to launching our own token, which we did in 2021. It was already one year into the new Swarm client, the Bee client. When we launched the token, there was new life. That’s when we started working seriously on positive storage incentives, and the rest of the features came.

**[1:08:10] SPEAKER_00:** Was that the same sort of time as your codebase became independent? Did it coincide: independent thing, new client, switch to libp2p, not integrated with Geth? Was the tech earlier?

**[1:08:40] SPEAKER_01:** The Swarm codebase was taken out of Go Ethereum quite a bit before. I’m not sure when, but I think it was Proof of Concept 4. It was too experimental to mix. Then we were able to conduct separate development and agenda.

**[1:09:08] SPEAKER_00:** ENS spinning out and the ENS Foundation preceded yours. Perhaps you were looking to that as a pattern.

**[1:09:45] SPEAKER_01:** ENS is very inspiring. We did get some grants from the Foundation, a bridging grant. Somehow it never materialized with that program, that budget we put together. Ultimately, we made it. We had our own foundation in Switzerland, started as an association, issued tokens—the SWARM token—and that was a new year of funding.

**[1:10:29] SPEAKER_00:** One thing we skipped over: Devcon One in London, November 2015. I assume you were there. What are your memories of that event?

**[1:10:52] SPEAKER_01:** I recently re-watched it. I have to say, I was diagnosed with Parkinson’s in 2009—15 years ago. When I did Devcon One it was not very easy to follow up. I was surprised looking back how difficult it was in terms of my movement. Sorry for the unsolicited diversion. As for the content, I remember we had a very successful presentation of Swarm. There was a lot of interest at the time. I was in Shanghai at the second—

**[1:11:49] SPEAKER_00:** Looking back at Devcon One videos, my takeaway is so many ideas were presented by that point. Nearly anything you can think of, somebody was working on it. A flourishing of people building on Ethereum: anything you could imagine seemed to be presented there.

**[1:12:27] SPEAKER_01:** I remember when I came in, we thought from next year we’re going to have wonderful decentralized services: decentralized delivery, decentralized eBay, decentralized Uber, Airbnb, all kinds of things. And of course they all need a Swarm-like thing, scalable data behind it, which came much later. Many were five or ten years too early. That definitely happened to Swarm: we didn’t realize until much later. Now at least it’s working.

**[1:13:19] SPEAKER_00:** Can you talk a little bit about where Swarm is now? What’s happening, how’s the functionality?

**[1:13:43] SPEAKER_01:** We have a very solid network. We had a narrow definition of the protocol: a distributed chunk store, where nodes communicate and distribute chunks. It’s a storage model and a distribution network. It has strong privacy properties, unique. We have analogies like the checkbook and postage stamp. A postage stamp is something you attach to a chunk of data to keep it alive. It’s kind of a hot wallet: when you put money on it, storage rent gets deducted; while it has funds, your content is live and available. Early on we implemented manifests: mapping strings to documents, usable as a key-value store, sitemap, directory tree. That lets you implement directories and files. We were talking about erasure codes back in 2016; only implemented two or three years ago. There’s ACT, an access-control mechanism that lets you manage grantees who can access a file or directory. We have a way to manage encryption/decryption keys for encrypted content. One interesting feature is mutability: Swarm feeds. It’s basically a kind of “sub-block” BLS—well, the integrity is not by content but by semantic convention. Let’s say it’s my website. The mutable content is attested by signature. The signature is the integrity of the chunk. That’s how we handle mutable content. It’s great for quickly changing stuff like databases and things.

**[1:17:19] SPEAKER_00:** Where would you say Swarm, as of 2026, sits and compares with IPFS plus Filecoin, Arweave, others? How do they differ?

**[1:17:38] SPEAKER_01:** It’s difficult not to mention adoption and family. IPFS is widely used, also in Ethereum. It’s a good, relatively simple architecture, easy to understand. Compared to Swarm, it lacks incentives. You can build stuff and get it preserved, but pinning services are quite centralized. Filecoin does it in some way. It’s mainly good for archival. A killer feature is availability proofs, which are hard to do. But there’s an “intent meme” of retrieving stuff from Filecoin: like taking a magnetic tape from an envelope—slow. If you don’t have a retrieval protocol or hot retrieval layer with incentivization with some SLA attached, it’s difficult to evaluate. Since then there have been attempts to link it to IPFS, which is itself a distribution platform. It doesn’t show. It’s a bit overkill in terms of incentives and proofs. You have to negotiate a marketplace of storage. Swarm is different: positive incentives. You get rewards for storing chunks that belong to your neighborhood. Pricing and redistribution of postage stamp revenue: there’s no extra deals you file somewhere. Chunks are always distributed across many neighborhoods, and whatever belongs to you, node operators get rewarded for. It has a nice property of central pricing, sensitive to supply signals. It checks supply, therefore demand, then sets the price. The question is whether it works; assumptions might not hold. In terms of bandwidth incentive, positive storage incentives, privacy properties, I’d say it’s quite advanced. Apart from the obvious goodies—content addressing, URL-based addressing, “rest of storage,” balanced distribution of chunks—Swarm takes monetary incentives seriously as what drives it bottom up. Some voices think altruism is not that bad. I understand, but we model node operators as rational profit-maximizing agents. Incentive design turns that low-level urge of maximizing profit into an intelligent emergent system usable at the network level. Ethereum is amazing at expressing self-enforcing incentive systems with smart contracts. In Swarm, the only strategic decisions clients can make should not yield better rewards than following the protocol. From connectivity, how you connect, how you forward, strategies of serving, retrieving, caching: all of this is properly incentivized.

**[1:25:03] SPEAKER_00:** One last big question. Looking back over these 10 years, have things happened as you thought they might? What you thought Ethereum was at the start, has that been what it’s become? What are your big reflections?

**[1:25:23] SPEAKER_01:** Ethereum is still very close to my heart. Sentimentally, but also I think it fulfills many early promises. Some are maturing slower than I would have wanted. Proof of stake was supposed to come after maybe a few years, and it did, but it took a while to conceptualize properly. Some early ambitions of proper apps, of “Swarm/Ethereum apps,” didn’t materialize as hoped. A Web3 app is only as Web3 as its weakest link. If anything is centralized in the stack—think of Tornado Cash but using Infura. Infura blocked Tornado Cash endpoints; it was illegal in the US. We still suffer from early neglects: neglecting clients, neglecting proofs and verification. It’s surprising. We talk about Web3 but it’s just talking through centralized RPC, NFTs, etc. As Moxie Marlinspike’s blog put it, he showed how easily things could be changed to a third image. It’s okay to poke fun, but some of this might be a promise we missed and therefore we’re lagging behind on ecosystem promises. Instead of lamenting, I try to put positive energy into constructive action. In general my approach is punk: I’m optimistic. This unstoppability is unstoppable now. It’s not possible to slow it down. I hope people don’t listen to stupid regulations curbing use, and instead go for it.

**[1:25:03] SPEAKER_00:** Okay, well thanks so much, and all the very best.

**[1:25:23] SPEAKER_01:** Thank you very much. Lovely to talk to you and reminisce about the past.

**[1:25:03] SPEAKER_00:** You too. Okay, thanks so much. Bye.