**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** So hello, I am Bob Summerwill and this is Early Days of Ethereum with my good friend Viktor Trón. So hi Viktor, how are you?

**[00:10] SPEAKER_01:** Very very well thank you. Hello Bob, thank you for inviting me to the show. It's wonderful to be here.

**[00:20] SPEAKER_00:** Well great to have you here. So so yeah we bumped into each other in Buenos Aires for Devconnect and I'd hope to record there but for one reason or another that never happened so good to connect you online instead. So talking about early days of Ethereum you you were very early in Ethereum so I mean what were you doing in your life prior to that that that led you to the project and then work-wise I was a

**[00:50] SPEAKER_01:** Not exactly. I wouldn't say I was exactly very close to the crypto scene, to be honest. I was working on a project with BBC News Labs, basically a news juice project. He was trying to kind of ingest a lot of news sources, like from old photo archives, video archives, and everything, and kind of juice it, like, basically work through the speech recognition and everything, and categorize it, and made it searchable in a very nice way. I mean, of course, it's one of the one of these kind of BBC sponsored projects no one no one really needed and it was never really used but but it was it was a nice project to work on and anyway so I kind of left the job at that time.

**[02:00] SPEAKER_00:** You were in London you were living in London.

**[02:05] SPEAKER_01:** So yeah I was in London I was living in London and I left the job because because I found Ethereum I was very excited right away. So when, so I guess it was when Gavin visited this kind of web, new web meetup, I'm sorry, I think it was a new web meetup, and then presented Ethereum, I was absolutely taken aback, and I thought it was amazing and a game changer. And I mean, what led me to it, to be honest, it was already quite a bit into Bitcoin, which is kind of interesting. Because Bitcoin came into my life through a friend who I knew from from an anarchist club or like whether it's the Facebook group basically so it's kind of he introduced me to it on ideological grounds but of course I was very interested in the tech as well so it's a but it took me quite a while to understand what is blockchain, how all these things come together. But by that time I was kind of solid in understanding the blockchain, and my understanding was solid enough so that I could to question, question Gavin and then Vitalik and that is absolutely not going to work, obviously, because of this whole thing problem. And, you know, and bit by bit, when I understood that they all had answers to every question that I could ever think of, then that's when I got convinced that they're probably the geniuses I really, I really can want to look up to and have, have a, in my biography to learn from. It was a very, very, very great start. And so when Gavin presented Ethereum, the next day I was already hacking on the C++ codebase actually, and had my first PR in. We met in a cafe in Dalston, I think. And I remember it was quite impressive that I learned having used Mac, but actually was running Linux OS on it. It was very impressive already.

**[04:30] SPEAKER_00:** And so you mentioned your anarchist group there. So had Bitcoin earlier been interesting to you from that kind of monetary

**[04:40] SPEAKER_01:** You know anarchist libertarian I have to say I have to say yes I have to say yes I mean when Bitcoin came this was the time when I even anyway kind of learned what money was really I mean before I didn't even didn't even grasp this notion and it was very important times in my life and it was really a game changer to to kind of have a framework in which I could totally identify myself with and yeah libertarian I don't know if it's a if it's the right word but and I really like this kind of Austrian view of economy. And I have understood what, how our money was used and what inflation was, which I never really understood before. It was okay. I came late to the game, let's say. Let's say that. But yeah. And then it was all very,

**[05:40] SPEAKER_00:** Was a history after and and the the next web meeting that you mentioned was that like a recurring meetup that you were going to or were you regularly going to kind of you know web meet up.

**[05:50] SPEAKER_01:** Yes but yes but this one particularly um I saw that because I I saw Vitalik's uh presentation in Miami and so that really got me interested, so I knew what I was in for, and I went and showed up for that meeting in Houston Square, I think it was, that meeting. Sorry, you said Vitalik's presentation, was that the one that he'd given in Miami? Yes, exactly, Miami conference. And there was a so I kind of, I knew already what I expect from it, but of course I never really understood and Gavin helped me quite a bit to understand it. So it was really great. Were you watching a variety of Bitcoin conference talks? Was that a sort of a regular thing that you were doing at that point, watching YouTube? Yes, at the time I was very, very interested and very much into these things. I mean, I was hoping that, you know, changes related to this kind of technologies would come a lot earlier. I was already careful.

**[07:20] SPEAKER_00:** I was sold in the hype a bit, or contributed to it myself in a way. Had you been sort of following along with things like MasterCoin and Colored Coins and other sort of Bitcoin 2.0 projects?

**[07:35] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, actually I did, yeah. It was kind of a, I think it was BitShares at the point. I'm sorry? And it was BitShares, I think. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. And there was this kind of, and then open transactions, which was very close to kind of Gavin's heart, I think. We worked together. And yeah, I don't know what came out of that after all, but it's interesting. And then, so after I left the BBC and ran in that winter, just kind of spent in Thailand half in the retreat and then in my spare time I was working on the yellow paper and with my way through the really hard notation and getting put on paper yes a lot of people struggled with that sort of math heavy notation and

**[08:50] SPEAKER_00:** And so you went to Gav's presentation, which would have been very early February. So, I mean, that was only like a week or so after Vitalik's presentation in Miami. It would have been very, very close. So you spoke to Gav there and then you exchanged emails, did you?

**[09:10] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, basically, we changed emails. He put me on Skype group. There was a Skype group at the time. I think it was 20-odd people on it, really. So not a big crowd. And yeah, that's how it all started. So it was very nice in the beginning to have this kind of really grandiose ideas and chat and be part of it. I'm super proud and very happy that I managed to be at the

**[09:50] SPEAKER_00:** It's kind of a lucky move, to be honest. So was it a fair bit later in that year that you started working with Danny on Swarm?

**[10:00] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, then it came a little bit later. So yes, first of all, in the spring, I started working on the yellow paper and then a bit on the C++, but not a lot. And then I think it was in March or sometime that I showed up on the first Ethereum meetup. Maybe not the first. I think you told me that it was not the first, but the second one. In London, this is? Yes, yes, yes, yes. So this was organized by Stephan Tual. Stephan Tual there. There was a, there was a Mihai there, who later came, Nakasha, I think. And then sorry, Mihai was there, right? Yes, yes. And I think who I talked to quite a lot was Jack du Rose. Yeah, of Colony. Colony fame, exactly. And then there is when I met Jeff first. Jeff became my boss later. He came to London for that meet-up? Yes, yes, he did. And so I kind of saw that it's quite an international crowd and from all over the world kind of doing these things. So I kind of took it very seriously. I said they had left my job and and then then joined the ranks and I kind of started contributing to the to the Go code and so yeah after that I kind of I was really I was really into into the Golang that's where I contributed most and become part of the Go Ethereum team after and after after Jeff offered this job around it was September October that year when the foundation was already

**[12:30] SPEAKER_00:** Of actually paying out some salaries or like recruiting people on the teams. Yeah. So, I mean, I was looking at the timing on that. So the Ethereum Foundation was founded in July of 2014. And then the crowd sale was going through July, August, September. And then, yeah, the hiring, that first wave of we've actually got some money to hire people was sort of, you know, September, October. So October, in October, I can't remember, I was negotiating with Aeron Buchanan, I remember. Right, right. My contact then. And then, I don't know when the Amsterdam office in the was actually funded, but I already visited Jeff, I think, later in that year there. So when I first kind of joined, I was really talking to myself with my friends in Hungary, and some of them related to this Facebook group, and among them like Dali, Fefe, and there was another person who was very close to Swarm later, but never actually entered the scene officially. Let him be unnamed. And so there was some thinking that maybe the four of us can form a group and we can just join as a kind of sub-dev team or something. It never happened. So we were just hired individually.

**[14:50] SPEAKER_00:** Yes. Later that year, there was Devcon Zero. Is that correct? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, if we just pop back a little bit. So through 2014, prior to the sale and so on, I mean, so how were things working early in 2014? I mean, you've mentioned a Skype group where you know, were most people kind of working through Skype?

**[15:20] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, yes, yes. It was really mainly, mainly, everything was done by, basically by Gavin, Jeff and the rest of us were just Sherpas in the way at the time. And then just tapping out. I mean, I'm talking about the technical stuff. I'm really not sure about the admin and the foundation stuff. So I hope no offense is taken from anyone. But yeah, for tech stuff, it's yeah. So I think it was actually in July that Jeff shared a kind of boy theme to do with me and kind of introduced me to the intricacies of the then aspiring devp2p protocol. And so I think that was my first project, I think, that was really kind of in the code base that I wrote it, which was then later scraped and completely rewritten by Felix and the other guys. But that was my first attempt, I think, at kind of going to be a networking layer. At the time, I was kind of trying to say really crazy ideas to Jeff about some developer tooling, some like, you know, contract, contract verification and like staging and like fake blockchain environment and stuff. And it was other things to do and it was focusing on like maybe the end user applications like the, what was it at the time? I think it was the ETH, ETH Go. I think it was under ETH Go, but it was actually later the Mist browser business. Right. It was a browser. And so he was kind of trying to talk me out of it and said that the other group, the C++ team is assigned to that anyway, so let me not tread on unwanted paths. And so he kind of brought me back to yeah. Well, I mean, you had Aleth you had Alex Zero right Alex Zero I guess with an earlier kind of uh in connection of that yeah that's good and then but there was some some kind of not so not so glorious tasks as well at the time refactor logging and then things like this I remember in the early days but there was also a time when I was I was kind of learning, learning Golang, because that was also not the super popular language. There was a lot of learning to do.

**[18:50] SPEAKER_00:** I mean, it was relatively new at that point. So you'd mentioned the yellow paper. So in those very early months of 2014, Gav in particular seemed to be incredibly productive in terms of what he was getting through with the C++ client and that yellow paper. I mean, was it usually the code that was leading and then the yellow paper was being kind of modeled after that? It's hard for me to say if they really were that kind of hand-in-hand developing, I think.

**[19:30] SPEAKER_01:** I can't really tell. Maybe it's better as him, to be honest. But yes, the productivity and actually the speed that he was churning at code, absolutely stunning. It was a few months after some of his clients already worked. Yeah, to be honest, I mean, Jeff was the same and Jeff was also incredible in his productivity. And those people were really, really nice example in front of me. So I was really happy to learn from them. Yeah. And I mean, I think that that triangulation was so important, right. Of having multiple clients and the spec.

**[20:40] SPEAKER_00:** And you had the PyEthereum client, though not really to that production status, but, you know, those three groups all, you know. There was a glorious

**[20:50] SPEAKER_01:** Statement that, you know, Ethereum was very proud of that, like, this multi-client development was leading to very, very solid specs. It was actually true, but, of course, that was not the reason, but the reason was that all these brilliant individuals just followed their own favorite language and just wanted their own clients to be built. But, you know, I mean, ultimately what came out of it is amazing, like that the specification was really I just remember just a few times that the specification had to be had to be changed there's like kind of one one case when there's like a modular operation that was not good not uh exactly it's a minus minus number exactly not sure exactly there was another one when I think it was around Easter 2015, or before, in the year leading to the launch. And I think that was when it's kind of a problem that the anchor was ahead. The two anchors had the same timestamp, I think. And that led to a fork. I remember I wrote a kind of blog post about it.

**[22:40] SPEAKER_00:** Never, never, never published it, so it's interesting. Talking to Jakub Czepluch, so he was an intern at the Berlin office in 2015, but he was telling me about a hard fork that had happened on the mainnet around two weeks or so after launch, which I was completely unaware of. Um but then looking back um you know there was a sort of a security announcement by Yuta it was a patching of the Geth client um and while I've been doing stuff myself in terms of like running old clients I I I saw that as well um if you if you run Geth 1.00 okay or Geth 1.01 it it gets stuck. It can't go through frontier blocks. So it was actually a hard fork. Do you remember what it was related to? It was not that interesting that you remembered. I mean, it was some kind of gas counting or something. Just some kind of little bug. But that was funny. That was a thing that I was not aware about. Because I, you know, so it was a hard fork, but it was never given a name because it was just an accident. And, uh, and you know, you wonder how many more of these little things there were that happened that sort of forgotten in the midst of time. But, um, but yeah, so, I mean, through that, through that early 2014 year, you were working initially on the C++ and then later on the Go. I mean, how many people were working on Go in 2014? I mean, it was really just a few people around Jeff. I think it was mainly designer and Alex van de Sande.

**[25:30] SPEAKER_01:** From Brazil, and yeah, and phew, but you were the second team member then, is that right? Correct, just about. Maybe actually the first officially, I'm not sure. The first paid one, I'm not sure. But I mean, we came roughly at the same time with Alex and I think with Felix. Right. Yeah, in terms of employment. Yeah, but I meant when you were working earlier, you know, when you started there. I mean, were there other people working on that Go Ethereum ahead of your joining in with him? Not really, not really. So he was, I was pretty much among the ones that contributed and the core that inspired him. And it, I mean, there, there was quite a, quite a vibrant ecosystem of, of, yeah, like it was the violent, vibrant community of people that like making, you know, the data became slow. It was like Nick Savers around, like super tall little dude. And we were, we were going together to the, to the, to the Bitcoin conference. I think it was in April. Yeah. Oh, you went to Toronto. No, no, it was in Amsterdam. Oh, okay. And that's when I just really talked to Vitalik quite a bit. It was very nice. And I got a big party this month, so it was a nice time. It was a nice time.

**[28:00] SPEAKER_00:** Nick Savers is a name that I've seen a lot of times. And I've never really met or spoken to him. I guess he was around a lot early and then maybe kind of disappeared out. And maybe he's a little bit of a non-guy that doesn't show his face. Yeah. I mean, he never joined. I don't know if he was ever an official part of any team. But he was always there. Yeah, around and helping us. I think he was employed by some bank. But I saw he and some others did the first continuous integration. You know, they were doing the build system. Nice, nice. And then he did work on the Java client as well. That is true. And the Java client was mainly

**[29:20] SPEAKER_01:** By, what was his name? Roman Mandeleil. That's correct, Roman Mandeleil. Kind of mysteriously disappeared after a few years. I'm not sure what happened to him. I did see him on Facebook for quite a time. He seems to have either disappeared or something since. I remember I spoke to him at the London Devcon, the Devcon one. Definitely around there with the whole EthereumJ team yeah I don't know what their name was but Ether.camp that's correct okay thanks thanks for reminding us well nostalgic so yeah it was early uh sort of early 2017 I think that he uh kind of disappeared um they did Hacker Gold

**[30:40] SPEAKER_00:** And, you know, this is some kind of like hackathon that there was some controversy about. It looked like the team kind of like bought votes, bought votes or something, but were paid out anyway. And then, yeah, he sort of disappeared with some people thinking he'd exit scammed. I'm not convinced he did. Because if he did, it was the worst, like, exit scam ever. Because it was so early. You know, like, it wasn't like anyone had got any kind of big amount of money or anything at that point. It was sort of a very poor scam. He was definitely unable.

**[31:40] SPEAKER_01:** Principles so maybe so you'd mentioned about you'd mentioned about you you know your your sort of collaborative sort of sub-team so that's that's Ethersphere well it's kind of it was it was a wishful thinking that might be Ethersphere but on the other hand I can I did I did register that as an organization of GitHub at least and even meant yes it I think it was pretty much the anyway, I mean, if I could call it a brand. I mean, I think at that time, it was only Ergo Industries who was right, yeah, Harris. Who later became Monax. This is Marmot, Marmot. And they did some nice work, by the way. But yes, Ethersphere was, yeah, the home of maybe most of our work. And then you can committing through that to the code base. So that was yourself, Daniel Nagy, Zoltán Felföldi. Yes, Zoltán Felföldi, yeah. like already hired to work on the light client it was in 2015 already and yeah because he was not on Devcon 0 but yeah Devcon 0 was already confirmed and it's it's very so for Danny and me joining by that time, there was quite a bit of, yeah, quite a bit of pass around with him, I think. So maybe, could you say a bit about Swarm? Because my understanding is that some of the ideas that went an awful long way back. Yeah. So I don't know if you remember, there was in May, May 2014, there was a seminar, you know, trial of talks in the, I think it was in Whitechapel somewhere, or somewhere in East London. And in that talk, that was the first appearance of Web3 in the Ethereum context. It was usually explained, and the founders really realized how decentralization can basically also be extended then to support the entire, be the backend of the entire web. And basically, if you extend it to the data, app data, and then hosting, and to basically put the data layer on top, and then maybe the messaging, then you can conceive of it as the world computer with this holy trinity of you know you can see them like the Ethereum blockchain as the as the world computers CPU uh and the and the working to task disk would be Swarm and then Whisper would be the messaging layers so you were mentioning Whitechapel so that was again, some meetups, was it? Yes, yes. And I think maybe Stephan even had some sort of co-working or some sort of high-end office there, maybe a room or two, because I very often found Vitalik there. So I'm not entirely sure how this works out. I don't want to say anything. Would that have been there were a lot of internal meetings as well.

**[37:00] SPEAKER_00:** Would that have been when that kind of famous diagram would first have surfaced? You know, the one with like the circle and the apps coming in at the side? Yes, that was just about that time, yeah. Including QML, I saw. So it was not just HTML, it was QML and Qt as other anticipated tech platforms.

**[37:30] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, so that's when Web3 was born, and it's kind of the crazy protocol names like after the ETH, which is also kind of this letter in Icelandic. Oh yeah, the thorn.

**[37:50] SPEAKER_00:** Yes exactly and so that's when this and then was invented also metallics gimmicks the uh those those Ethereum well the sub protocols right protocols running on a common basis but the Ethereum was just one of one of many related protocols

**[38:10] SPEAKER_01:** And that's why I was very dedicated to this whole Ethereum at the time. I really kind of understood what it means to have the entire kind of Turing-complete computation being secured on its own with the blockchain. And I kind of really envisioned quite a change in how the internet works if you have Swarm and then Whisper and all these things. So I quite liked the idea. And then later I kind of learned that you know, not only did they socialize on BitTorrent at the time, but actually some of us, like Dani, operating a DC plus node, had some legal troubles. Maybe we can also kind of talk about this with him at some point. So that's kind of brought us, so Go team quite quite directly in the kind of realm of of implementing Swarm this idea of a decentralized storage and maybe incentivization etc and a neighbor solution connected and Zoltán mentioned to me um that he thought that the idea for Swarm had gone back to at least 2011? Yeah, so there was this idea of I mean, of course, I don't know about that, but it was mainly Dani's idea that if he I mean, he saw the amazing works of BitTorrent, they also saw some drawbacks. So maybe historically it's best to derive the whole idea of Swarm from them. And because BitTorrent was, it had difficulty like starting a download, with all this kind of, all this throttling moves, and of course didn't have the proper incentives to keep the data. And also, of course, had the problem with the individual bits of the file not being addressable right away. You had to use a tracker to resolve them. And, of course, that's also a problem with how much privacy there is in the balance. Because, I mean, as you remember, you know, example in in in in Germany should they you already have there was legal prosecution for who who used BitTorrent oh I didn't know that and I mean not that time but I mean much later but uh yeah so I think what Dani was trying to do is give an idea of how to chunk things. In a way, every chunk is kind of a content addressable. And also kind of that some of the placement of chunks is also part of the DHT. So normally a DHT, like a decentralized, or like this distributed hash table. It's basically the idea that you put node IDs and then kind of chunk or ideas of content, basically, in the same space, and somehow you get information with location, like who to download it from, about these chunks from the neighborhoods that have the same address, or like, yeah, similar address. So there's usually a metric on this, if you use the logarithmic distance like that then you can work with the Kademlia and then it's Kademlia networks you you you kind of iterate through the peers, like you keep a few peers connected and you call them away, so do you know closer one to this guy, to this guy, and when this guy is like the hash of Star Wars, and you want to watch Star Wars, and then you call them up, and ultimately you see what the where the chunks are we can download from. So obviously this is not very private, so. And then, and also kind of, it's not very, as you know from this kind of legal problems that it's also not very really deniable. So if you, and if you have a, if you kind of enforce certain chunks should reside, so you kind of enforce a kind of layer on top of it, then you can possibly deny that you know anything about it. It's just a system that enforces parts of the Star Wars story. Basically, it was Dani's genius idea that I think we call it the DPA, Decentralized Preimage Archive. It's basically an archive of pre-images. Pre-images is a piece of data that the image of which is the hash yet, the pre-image is what's before the hashing, the actual piece of the data. And so this idea of actually storing not the location, but the actual data at the place in the DHT, has direct DHT interpretation, was the DPA. And that was kind of a very important, very important notion that came and then became very important in this Swarm. And then, yeah, and then a lot of other things came. So I remember when we were in the fifties, in the two thousand fifteen or fourteen, I'm not sure. And in the winter, they were sitting in the Arena Plaza in Budapest, the three of us, with Fefe, talking about this and how to start implementing it. Because there was a pressure to obviously implement the whole thing using UDP as the networking stack, because it was considered that TCP is too heavy and too too slow, but then obviously that at the time we already had the devp2p protocol, it's very very easy to implement it and then try this protocol. So I suggested that we should instead of using UDP, just use TCP, but use it for forwarding, keep alive some connections, these are connections, these are permanent connections, with the peers, and just use the Kademlia with the, through the live connections that each forwarding like, in which locally decide to forward to the closer node, and ultimately backward, like if you forward the request and you backward the chunk. And so it was, it seemed like very easy to implement, and we did exactly that. Turned out to be one of the best and most interesting choices of Swarm. It turns out that that's what allows peer-to-peer accounting to be working, and also gives the privacy features that Swarm has. This is, in this case, the originator of the request, if you think about it. No one knows that when someone there is asking you something, that they want to watch the Star Wars or someone upstream wants to watch the Star Wars. It directly solved the opportunity caching problem, how to distribute automatically popular content, retrieval paths, all the forwarding peers can just remember some chunks. It's very interesting how these ideas started. And then basically we kind of coalesced in 2016. So I think the first, the very first release of PoC with Geth 1.5. It was in, I'm not sure of the, one second. So it was a, it was December 2016, it was. Yes. And this alpha public pilot was released. And I remember there was already, there was already kind of how we viewed video. We call it streaming, but it's actually not real time streaming. It's like just a, just a watched video file. There was nice tweets about that too.

**[49:00] SPEAKER_00:** And just to just take take a step back so I mean my understanding of a primary thought that there was with with Swarm was that because you could have this you know the holy trinity right of sort of like decentralized compute database the the the blockchain Swarm for the decentralized you know decentralized file system and storage and then Whisper for that decentralized messaging that you could have this really nice kind of synergy of say a primary issue which is still really not solved of saying well how do you like host the web front end right you know to make a whole application yes you need your smart contracts and your transactions and things but you need like an application wrapping around that. So really the thought that if you had a decentralized storage mechanism that could store like the HTML and the JavaScript and so on, um, that you want, like, an incentive system so that that stuff is available if people want it, you know, that you don't have a tragedy of the commons where only most popular content is available. But also, because if you are building on Ethereum, you've got the cryptocurrency to do the incentives. You've got the smart contract system that allows you to implement those incentive systems. And all of these things can fit together into a holistic, unstoppable whole of saying, oh, here you go. You've got your applications, which cannot be stopped. But that's the full stack.

**[51:30] SPEAKER_01:** And it seems even now that there's an awful lot of stuff which is dependent on centralized hosted services. And it's very sensible. Yeah, I am pretty sad about this, to be honest. I mean, there's a lot of these things. I don't know if you remember this big, I don't know, was it Bitbase? That lost the biggest crypto heist ever because of the safe, you know, whatever. But if that had been using Swarm, then it must be much more difficult to change all these kind of transactions under the hood, because what they had to do is they hacked the person, the dev's account, and then uploaded something through S3, which then which then make the safe wallet used. And of course these are much more difficult to do if these things are, the content address is of course registered. So this is how these things work. Like, you know, you start from the blockchain, which starts seeing the source of truth, ENS or services as a name. You resolve it to content hash, and then the content hash is retrieved from the Swarm, from these decentralized stores. And I mean, again, that 2016 kind of era was when ENS was coming to life as well. So, yeah, I mean, that's another important part. Actually, Nick Johnson was first part of the Swarm team. As part of the Swarm team, he developed the ENS, and then later took off, and then he pivoted to the ENS. I didn't know he worked on Swarm. I knew he was part of the Geth team, but he did some Swarm as well, eh? Well, definitely. I recruited him, to be honest. Fantastic. Did you know him in London? No, no, no. I mean, he was just part of the community. He was a very, very valuable contribution to the community.

**[54:30] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, to Swarm yeah. Let me just check the timeline. But I think he got hired really pretty soon after me. I started in February 2016, and I think he was maybe June. Same kind of time as Hudson. Yeah. Let's see. So, yeah, I started in February. Greg Colvin in March. Everton Fraga in April. And, yeah, June, both Hudson and Jamie Pitts and Nick Johnson. All June 2016. Yeah. What was I going to mention? So yeah, you talked about Devcon Zero. So that was November 2014 in Berlin. I imagine, was that the first time that you will have met quite a number of these people? Absolutely. Especially memorable is my meeting with Alex Leverington.

**[56:00] SPEAKER_01:** Oh, yes. Yeah. Very interesting. We had lots of discussions. Yeah. He was very adamant and very stubborn with his own way of thinking about the protocol. I have to say, he was much more knowledgeable than I was at the time, so I was trying to learn a lot from him. But at the same time, I was always trying to be a bit more pragmatic and trying to be savvy, and then I have to simplify. And I remember I was first basically wrote together the kind of specs for the for that uh yeah that's it with protocol and then and then you know that was not really followed just right yeah it was a very interesting time.

**[57:20] SPEAKER_00:** Well, I mean, the other piece there is that libp2p, as part of the Protocol Labs, IPFS, that already existed at that time. So that was kind of interesting, right? This whole devp2p, libp2p. I mean, you know how Ethereum kind of suffered from it, like this kind of what's the word for this? Not invented here syndrome? Not invented here syndrome. Thank you, thank you.

**[58:00] SPEAKER_01:** And like, you know, the RLP, RLPx stuff. Right. Then we have their own serialization protocol, like the devp2p as well. But I have to say, the devp2p at some point was kind of a lean protocol right excellent for for the purposes of for for including it in this Swarm for example it's a it's a lot less bloated but of course it had a lot of problems in terms of maintenance it was just not appropriate to start like Saturn and build everything from scratch in the way it's like in retrospect it was probably not the best idea to be honest but hey.

**[59:00] SPEAKER_00:** And I mean, that's got stuck in the execution clients forever. You know, the consensus clients now are using libp2p and aren't using RLP anymore. But the execution client got stuck with devp2p forever. And I mean, I remember having discussions with various people on this in sort of 2016 of saying well you could you have both protocols you know people looking at sort of could you do a bridge protocol so that some of the stuff could run over libp2p and you can have like relay nodes really with the thought that you like libp2p you could run in a browser right you know devp2p you could never run in a browser um and so like was working with somebody from the Parity team, maybe Robert, around maybe a little later, 2017, 2018, of trying to see, well, can we get a light client in browser talking to all of these things? But it never quite happened. Some of these decisions just left forever it was only after we after this one and left the foundation is when we kind of switched to libp2p as well because when we started the Bee client development right right I was yeah I wasn't aware that that transition had happened so I mean Devcon Zero so that was you know that was late 2014. Um but, you know, things continued, obviously, through 2015 all the way up to the July launch. At the time, Swarm was just an idea which was kind of mainly kind of

**[61:30] SPEAKER_01:** Meant to be specced out or kind of started by by Gavin who had this kind of very interesting past in the recent storage and he actually presented his his his vision of that uh that of course you know yeah everyone watching this thing very very very good early early capturing of this idea and at that point he so at that point he got he got hired in and uh you know that that became a real a thread of official development within the Ethereum stack around who sorry around yeah but Danny and and then and then kind of slowly slowly kind of organically became a little bit of a sub team after that and uh yeah and so after that like pepper I never really contributed to the first first bit which you choose even even I think it was even proven before it still came he was he was telling me um that you know he was thinking that was what he would be doing when he was hired in but then almost immediately um Jeff told him yeah no you're not you're just doing you're just working on Geth yes I mean we have inside for to to develop the incentivize their light client protocol she worked on for many many years and it's a bit sad that it never took off but um

**[64:00] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, well, I mean, it's tough. I mean, that's my interest in that is where my own journey started. Because when I kind of got interested in Ethereum, the first thing I wanted to do was I was really into mobile and wearables at that time. So I wanted to see, can I run an Ethereum node on my smartwatch? So I was doing ARM Linux cross builds of CPP Ethereum. And my thought at that time was, okay, you know, light client is still getting worked out, but I'll get a full client working on all these devices. And then when light client, you know, comes out, they'll just work, right? So I can run a full client on a testnet, make sure it all works. But, you know, it's just a matter of time. You know, of course, we'll have light clients. And of course, everything will scale. And of course, you can run all things on any devices, right? You know, we're thinking every phone is, you know, you're just going to have an Ethereum node running. Every router, media box. And it's still suffering the kind of RPC and then centralized access, right? How unstoppable is that yeah it will just get you know you it will just come with every Linux distro you know it will just be like a service that's just part of the Linux distro you know just get shipped you've just got this background service that you know that is just talking Ethereum you know and it'd be the same as like having you know a network stack or a or an audio stack or whatever it's just like yeah you're going to have a consensus stack and

**[67:00] SPEAKER_01:** You know, it'll just like run in the background and just work. You like cheap and easy. Yeah. Not, no, that didn't quite happen. And then 10 years in, I mean, it's kind of made me, these things are starting, like, I don't know if you know, the DBoot project, for example, like no, what's that? How to, how to boot from, from, from Swarm. Yeah. Booting, booting from Swarm. Yes. I mean, they're just building the kind of UEFI client that can bring up kind of any operating system. Wow. Okay, that's interesting. Yes, interesting. I mean, it's not worked out fully yet, but the guys are really I mean, there's a fair bit of, like, you know, networking stuff that would have to happen before you could even start. Right. Like that's having to have some kind of bootstrapping little mini OS or something. Yeah. And it seems that even before that you can, you can do it, you know, just to, yeah. Um, I mean, they, they already have that kind of bandwidth kind of a small Linux environment is, is critical. And they moved from that. That's interesting. And they can do it just with the mm-hmm.

**[69:00] SPEAKER_00:** So, I mean, through those early years prior to mainnet launch, you'd mentioned work on the yellow paper. So, I mean, how was it being determined what feature complete, what good enough looks like? Had you got a good idea of what you'd have to have before launch could happen?

**[69:30] SPEAKER_01:** Uh I mean well I didn't have a clear idea really because it took me a while to understand the full system very honest with you it's like I think it's only the only Jeff who really really opens up where he already what was needed to be built and and he was building massive things on his own single-handedly it's really really crazy I mean not so good experience, but I was assigned the task of building the block pool, which was supposed to be like, you know, the one that takes the blocks from the other clients, builds up the header chain, and kind of validates it, etc. And I was working a lot on that, and every time he had enough and said, okay, I just build it and basically one or two days and it was done. And it was an interesting experience. And Christoph Jentzsch was building the cross-client tests as well. Did you do work with those tests yourselves? You, sorry, I mean? No, I did myself, but yeah, I remember he was always running and so I remember so in

**[71:30] SPEAKER_00:** In sort of July 2015 we had the arrival of of Ming Chan and shortly afterwards you know pretty serious budget cuts uh because within that year or so the foundation had managed to pretty much burn through the vast majority of the money austerities I think he was the official name of that yeah I remember

**[72:00] SPEAKER_01:** And that time when Vitalik basically said that Horace is not going to be Swarm, what's going to be is maybe some, maybe if you just kind of use IPFS and let's start to work on the incentive system that we can put on that. Okay. And I remember, I mean, I remember that, maybe it's not the secret anymore, but Jeff kind of let us keep working on Swarm from this period with so so we did and and then and there is enough to kind of there was a there was a basically ready ready uh incentivization scheme for the for the bandwidth incentives it's also very interesting because Swarm seems to be the one of the only one of the only um one of the only systems like decentralized storage systems that has a proper bandwidth incentive a proper accounting system like this did for that accounting and it seems like this it's quite I don't know and it's probably conjecture but it doesn't look like this there's any other proper way to do this because if you think about bandwidth first of all it's a it's a kind of instant gratification thing. You can right a forward for someone, like you right a server request or not. So it's not like the shady territory of like a future promise, like storage. You have to record your deal on the chain and like, you know, some proof of availability, etc. But here bandwidth is just much more, much more kind of, yeah, it seems like easier swap by just peer-to-peer accounting that, you know, I forward for you, you forward for me, and then we just relate for each other, and if there's a big tilt, then some short conversation should happen. But I'm not sure, maybe it's not even, has to be some settlement around it. I'm just, and then maybe we kind of like this idea, there's also kind of, that is genius, that came up in this kind of checkbook idea. It's basically an early version of vacuum, sort of payment chain like micro payment solution. And yeah, so that bandwidth incentive was a very powerful one. It lived on log. And then I remember that kind of it seemed that the incentivization for storage was much more difficult in a way to arrive at. There was the negative incentives, how to solve the problem of pricing and the growth and who's responsible for who, what, and if it's everything recorded on chain, how to attend the privacy of things. It was very, very difficult. So it came much, much, much, much later. I kind of worked out that part as well. It was only after the token, the BZZ token was released in 2021. Yeah, well, anyway, so, yeah, going back to the roots, yeah, the austerities, yeah, it was, so you were continuing to work through late 2015, even though it had supposedly been defunded? Yeah, kind of, yes. I mean, we were trying to figure out this incentive, of course, and in that sense, we were, of course, off track in a way. And I was also kind of working at the time on the Go Ethereum client on many aspects of it. And by 2017, the kind of Swarm client was kind of integrated, and that was released within Go Ethereum. It was in 2018, when the PoC 3 release was part of the Geth. So when the Swarm client was starting out, we started a standalone Swarm client. Starting 2018, you said? Yeah. So all the way through until that point, you were continuing to work as a sort of a Geth team member? Yes, I mean, officially we were part of the Geth Go Ethereum team. It's part of the Amsterdam entity. And kind of yeah so slowly slowly kind of extending the team as as as the protocol got got uh got some movement so it was yeah it was interesting times because I remember in 2016 when after after Nick Johnson left he was kind of hired some other people on on the protocol and then yeah that's what kind of when

**[80:00] SPEAKER_00:** I emerged as the team leader at the time, organically, trying to put together the threads. And so with the Swarm Foundation, how and when did that happen? And how did you come to kind of leave the Geth team, I guess?

**[80:20] SPEAKER_01:** Well, so it was 2018 autumn, man. Actually, 2018 summer, I and a person called Albert came and started to offer the help for Swarm. They were kind of asking what we need. They seemed very helpful. Albert Ni is this? Yes, I think so. Yeah, who had basically joined the Ethereum Foundation at the same time as Aya. Yeah, Aya was very, very, very, I mean, you know, to be honest, I'm on very good terms with Ming and before as well, but when Aya came, she seemed very, very helpful and, you know, tried to solve some staffing problems and things, and but the negotiations started, and I'm here. And after that, it seems that by Prague, we kind of get into some serious discussions. And then after that, we kind of, I think it was right at the last day of the Prague Devcon, we're submitting the proposal for funding, immediate funding. And then it was very interesting because I never really got any serious feedback on that. I was always a little bit wondered, like, what's going to happen? And then there were some issues that went on with Sean O'Connor. This is a point of contact delegated by Aya. Who, sorry? Sean O'Connor. Right. Yes, there was the delegated point of contact for us, the Swarm team. And then slowly, slowly, like after that, I think there's a kind of totally, the EF scores changed a bit, and that's when every team needed to submit a kind of roadmap proposal and all kinds of things. It's a kind of this whole scheme started of like trying to trying to graduate some of the some of the other teams and some of the protocols after the foundation yeah we have to have them get individual funding and then kind of reach reach the gap with some grants and then that's what happened with this Swarm as well so after I remember 2019 there was a Swarm summit in Madrid. It was very, very successful. We had a lot of partnerships. We subscribed to some monetary help as well. And then the foundation promised to back it up. And somehow that never happened, so we kind of resorted to launching our own token, which we did in 2021. And it's already been one year into the new Swarm client, like the Bee client. And yes, so when we launched the token, started a new with some with some new life of BZZ into the into the whole thing and and that's when again we started working on seriously about that the positive storage incentives and the rest of the features just came yeah I mean was that um the same sort of time as your code base became independent

**[84:30] SPEAKER_00:** Did that kind of coincide that you're like, right, we're an independent thing, we're going to make a new client, we're going to switch to libp2p, and it's not going to be integrated in directly with Geth? Were those happening at the same time, or did the tech happen earlier? Yes, not really. I think the Swarm code base was taken out of the Go Ethereum quite a bit before, so I think the

**[85:00] SPEAKER_01:** I'm not even sure where, but I think it was PoC 4, I think. And when it was taken out, I think it was, yeah, it was too experimental, I guess, or something. Anyway, it's not very good idea to mix the two. And then, like, and then, and then also do this, and then develop we were able to conduct a very separate development scheme and agenda. And I guess maybe Nick Johnson's sort of experience with spinning out ENS and the ENS Foundation, that would have preceded yours. So perhaps you were looking to that as a pattern. Sorry, we're getting some really bad audio. Can you maybe move a little closer? Can you hear me now? Yeah, that's better.

**[86:30] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, ENS is very inspiring. And then we did get some grants from the foundation, and also kind of bridging grant. And then, as I said, somehow, somehow, it never materialized with that kind of program, that budget that we put together with the team. But ultimately, we made it. And then we had our own foundation in Switzerland, which started as an association, a small association which kind of issued tokens which is a BZZ token and uh yeah and that a new year of funding.

**[87:30] SPEAKER_00:** One thing we skipped over maybe we can just quickly go back to is is Devcon One um so that was in London in November 2015. So I assume you were there do you have what are your memories of that event I just recently re-watched it and I remember I was doing pretty much

**[88:00] SPEAKER_01:** I don't know if you know, but I was diagnosed with Parkinson's in 2009, 15 years ago. When I did Devcon 1, it was not very easy to follow up here. I was a bit surprised. I didn't remember at the time such a difficult in terms of my movement. And so I'm sorry for the maybe unsolicited diversion. But yes, as for the content, I remember that we had a very, very successful presentation of Swarm. There was a lot of interest at the time. I was in Shanghai at the second.

**[89:00] SPEAKER_00:** I mean, I was looking back at you're saying you're looking back. I was looking back at some Devcon 1 videos recently. And like, I guess my takeaway looking back is so many ideas were presented by that point. Nearly anything that you can think of in all the different areas, it seemed that somebody was working on that. You'd got this real flourishing of people building on Ethereum by that point. Like anything you could imagine seems seemingly was presented there. I remember when I came in.

**[90:00] SPEAKER_01:** Because we always thought that from next year, we're going to have like always wonderful decentralized service, like the decentralized delivery or like, or Just Eat or whatever you call it, like decentralized eBay, decentralized Uber, and Airbnb and all kinds of things. And of course, and then, you know, of course, they all need their kind of Swarm-like thing. And sort of scalable, scalable data layer behind it that came much, much later. Yeah, many of them, like, five or ten years too early. Yes. And, yeah, so this is definitely what happened to Swarm, like, we did not realize much, much later. It is.

**[91:30] SPEAKER_00:** But now at least it's working so so so yeah but can you talk a little bit about where Swarm is now what what's what's happening and how's the functionality and yeah so we have a very solid network and and we can consolidate the

**[92:00] SPEAKER_01:** We've had a narrow definition of the protocol, so basically it's kind of like the distributed chunk store definition, where nodes communicate, basically, and then they distribute the chunks. It's kind of a storage model, as well as a distribution network. And it has rather strong privacy properties, which are quite unique, and I mean, view is kind of older than analogies like the checkbook and postage stamp. Postage stamp is something that you attach to a chunk of data to keep it alive. And it's kind of a hot wallet in a way. It's kind of when you put some money on it, some storage rent gets deduced and it runs out of funds you know, your content is live and it's available hot. And yeah, so I mean, on the way we can, very early on we implemented kind of this manifest idea. The manifest is basically just a matching of, like mapping of strings to documents, which you can use as a kind of key-value store, but sitemap, but also kind of a directory tree, right? So basically you can, you could, that way implement directories and files. And so that was the first extension, this kind of high-level thing. And we were already talking about erasure codes and stuff back in 2016, and it got only implemented maybe two or three years ago. And it's kind of a very interesting concept of how we can implement it in the erasure codes. But yeah, so there's also this kind of thing called ACT, which is like the, mechanism access control mechanism that that we that allows you to kind of manage the grantees that can access access file or directory and so we basically have a way to kind of get to the encryption decryption key encrypted content and and one of the very interesting stuff in Swarm, maybe one of the very interesting features, is how you handle the mutability. It's kind of single writer mutable feeds, Swarm feeds. And it's basically a kind of sub-block ENS. So, basically, the integrity of the chunk is not by the content, but actually by some kind of semantic convention. Let's say, like, okay, it's my website. It's like, you know, let's see. This is something that you can guess. My CV is then hashed together with your address. The mutable content is actually, has a station by signature. So that's the signature, which is the integrity of the chunk. And that's how we handle the mutable content. And it's also, it's great for kind of quickly changing stuff like databases and things.

**[96:00] SPEAKER_00:** I mean, where would you say Swarm, as of 2024, sits and compares with, say, IPFS plus Filecoin or Arweave or others? How do they differ?

**[96:20] SPEAKER_01:** You know, what kind of usage? You're asking me, you've probably got a technical answer for how it compares. Well, let's keep it light. If I am a dumb end user no, I know, but what I'm saying is that it's difficult not to mention that in terms of, for example, adoption or in terms of even family. Yeah, I mean, maybe in terms of adoption and just like top line features, perhaps that, you know, that one has and another doesn't. So IPFS is obviously very, very widely used, also in the Ethereum realm. It was a it's a, it was always a very, very good and relatively simple, simple architecture, easy to understand. I think it's, it, it, it, I mean, if you compare it to Swarm who likes the, likes the privacy features, it's, it definitely lacks the privacy features as well as, as well as the incentives really. I mean, you know, you can say that you can, you can build stuff and, and therefore get it, get it preserved but those pinning services are actually quite centralized. So it's like, and then there's also kind of attackable in a way. Does Filecoin work? Is that a real thing now? Filecoin kind of does it in some way. It's mainly good for archival and you have very strong, they kind of, a killer feature is the availability proofs, which actually work for proving that whatever you store there is available in various replicas which is not an obvious thing to do at all, and it's very good, but only at the end, I don't want to kind of mock it, but this is kind of an intent meme of someone taking a magnetic tape out into the envelope, which is like someone retrieving stuff from Filecoin. So obviously, if you don't have any kind of retrieval protocol or like hot retrieval layer with incentivization with some sort of SLA attached to it, it's a bit difficult to evaluate the proposition there. I mean, of course, since then there was a lot of tries and then since then it's changed and there's also kind of, there's been also attempts to link it to IPFS, which is itself a distribution platform. So in fact, one kind of, yeah, it doesn't show. And I think it's a bit of an overkill in terms of these incentives, in terms of the availability proofs. And it also kind of suffers some bit of the privacy issues as well. You have to negotiate the market place of storage. In Swarm, Swarm is very, very different in that sense. The positive incentives, it's just you get rewards for storing the chunks that belong to your neighborhood. And the pricing and the redistribution of the postage stamp revenue, as you and there's no extra place that you file or anything somewhere. Chunks are always distributed across many neighborhoods, and whatever belongs to you, the node operators get rewarded for. And this distribution can have a nice property of a central pricing. Basically, that can be sensitive to some sort of supply signals that we. It has this nice method of checking supply therefore demand and then and therefore set the price based on that type of model I mean the question is whether it works though and some of the assumptions might not hold if the pinch of school but uh but uh so in terms of in terms of its bandwidth incentive and in terms of the positive storage incentives, and also the privacy properties, I would say it's quite an advanced framework. I mean, apart from all the obvious goodies that we talked about, like addressing and kind of URL-based addressing, and what we call the rest of storage, and balanced distribution of chunks, and then and then also also there's a lot of there's a lot of especially they take it very seriously that the monetary incentives is what drives the thing from bottom up. So I think there's some voices in the community that don't take very seriously this kind of monetary incentives, and they think that maybe altruism is really not that bad. And I kind of understand where they're coming from. However, we take it seriously that I want to insert it like having someone behind a node client. It's kind of modeled by a rational profit-maximizing agent. And then it's kind of relatively low-level urge of maximizing your profit into something that's generally very, very usable on the network level, emerges as an intelligent system that can serve other purposes. And this is what the incentive design, this is what Ethereum is amazing at. It can express with the smart contracts, where it's kind of self-enforcing contracts, how they can express a beautiful incentive system. And for example, it's for me to take it so seriously that the only kind of strategic decision is that, that clients can make that basically not, that doesn't lead to kind of immediate disconnect because of a syntax problem or like something. We have more primitive violation. These should be incentivized, at least to the extent of doing anything else than what the protocol dictates should not get a better amount of rewards. At least you lose money. All the way from the connectivity, how you connect, how you forward stuff, and all the strategies that you serve, what you retrieve, what you cache. And all this kind of stuff are properly incentivized.

**[104:00] SPEAKER_00:** So let me ask you one last big question. Looking back over these 10 years, have things happened as you thought they might? What you thought Ethereum was at the start, has that been what it's become? Looking back on these 10 years, what are your big reflections on this journey.

**[104:30] SPEAKER_01:** Interesting question. So, well, Ethereum is still very, very close to my heart in a way, but apart from the heart being saying this is from a sentimental approach, I also think that it definitely fulfills many of its early promises. And maybe some of them are kind of maturing a bit slower than I would have wanted. I mean, just think of the proof of stake, which was supposed to come after maybe a few years. And then it kind of happened. But some things take a while to even develop, to even conceptualize properly. And yes, I mean, I mean, of course, some of these earlier ambitions of proper dapps being of Swarm, sorry, being like the Swarm Ethereum dapps, of course, didn't materialize in May. Or I would say that they're not considered as properly materialized because I think you have Web3 dapp is as Web3 as the weakest link of it, yeah? So if you have anything that's not so decentralized in a stack, like, I mean, just think of the easiest examples of Tornado Cash, but using Infura. Right, right. I forgot for me to say, but, you know, and if you read it did block turning the cache point and it was obviously illegal to use in the US and and then but I mean, so we still suffer from some of these early neglects, like neglecting light clients, neglecting the whole proof of, like proofs and verification. It's a bit surprising, some of this to me, and it's worth facing that, like, you know, you know, we're talking about Web3, but it's actually just, you know, we talk through a PC and then, which is kind of centralized, and then we talk NFTs and then all this kind of stuff. But we, I mean, as Moxie Marlinspike's blog put it, like, he actually showed when I don't know can see the NFT that he created turns into a turd image and yes yes so you know it's kind of I mean he of course it's fun it's it's okay to poke fun I mean your partner listen and of course of course you know some of these things might be a promise of maybe a Swarm or something that we might have missed and therefore kind of lagging behind with some of these overall ecosystem promises. But I don't know. But instead of lamenting on this, I just keep on trying to share some positive energies into this constructive action and this stuff. So in this way, I'm kind of in general, my approach can be described as the cyberpunk image that I'm relatively optimistic about the future of it. And I think this unstoppability is kind of unstoppable now. It's really not possible to slow it down. And I really hope that when people get it, they don't they don't listen for what is kind of stupid regulations curbing curbing the use of it and instead instead just yeah go for for for okay well thanks so much and uh all the very best okay thank you very much lovely to talk to you and reminisce about the past you too okay thanks so much bye.