**[00:01] SPEAKER_00:** So hello, I am Bob Summerwill and this is Early Days of Ethereum with my good friend Viktor Trón. So hi Viktor, how are you?

**[00:08] SPEAKER_01:** Very very well, thank you. Hello Bob, thank you for inviting me to the show. It's wonderful.

**[00:13] SPEAKER_00:** Well great to have you here. So yeah, we bumped into each other in Buenos Aires for Devconnect and I'd hoped to record there but for one reason or another that never happened, so good to connect online instead. So talking about early days of Ethereum, you were very early in Ethereum. So I mean, what were you doing in your life prior to that that led you to the project?

**[00:31] SPEAKER_01:** Not exactly. I wouldn't say I was exactly very close to the crypto scene, to be honest. I was working on a project with BBC News Labs, basically a news juice project. He was trying to kind of ingest a lot of news sources, like from old photo archives, video archives, and everything, and kind of juice it, like, basically work through the speech recognition and everything, and categorize it, and made it searchable in a very nice way. I mean, of course, it's one of these kind of BBC sponsored projects no one really needed and it was never really used, but it was a nice project to work on. Anyway, so I kind of left the job at that time.

**[01:16] SPEAKER_00:** You were in London, you were living in London?

**[01:18] SPEAKER_01:** So yeah, I was in London, I was living in London, and I left the job because I found Ethereum. I was very excited right away. So when—so I guess it was when Gavin visited this kind of web, new web meetup, I'm sorry, I think it was a new web meetup, and then presented Ethereum, I was absolutely taken aback, and I thought it was amazing and a game changer.

**[01:47] SPEAKER_00:** And what led you to it?

**[01:49] SPEAKER_01:** To be honest, it was already quite a bit into Bitcoin, which is kind of interesting, because Bitcoin came into my life through a friend who I knew from an anarchist club or like, whether it's the Facebook group basically. So it's kind of, he introduced me to it on ideological grounds, but of course I was very interested in the tech as well. It took me quite a while to understand what is blockchain, how all these things come together. But by that time I was kind of solid in understanding the blockchain, and my management was solid enough so that I could question, question Gavin and then Vitalik and that is absolutely not going to work, obviously, because of this whole thing problem. And bit by bit, when I understood that they all had answers to every question that I could ever think of, then that's when I got convinced that they're probably the geniuses I really can want to look up to and have in my biography to learn from. It was a very, very great start. And so when Gavin presented the museum, the next day I was already hacking on the C++ codebase actually, and had my first PR in. We met in a cafe in Dalston, I think. And I remember it was quite impressive that I learned having used Mac, but actually was running Linux OS on it. It was very impressive already.

**[03:17] SPEAKER_00:** And so you mentioned your anarchist group there. So had Bitcoin earlier been interesting to you from that kind of monetary—

**[03:24] SPEAKER_01:** You know, anarchist libertarian? I have to say yes, I have to say yes. I mean, when Bitcoin came, this was the time when I even anyway kind of learned what money was really. I mean, before I didn't even grasp this notion, and it was very important times in my life, and it was really a game changer to kind of have a framework in which I could totally identify myself with. Libertarian—I don't know if it's the right word—but I really like this kind of Austrian view of economy. And I understood what, how our money was used and what inflation was, which I never really understood before. I came late to the game, let's say. But yeah, and then it was all very—

**[04:07] SPEAKER_00:** Was a history after. And the next web meeting that you mentioned, was that like a recurring meetup that you were going to, or were you regularly going to kind of—

**[04:15] SPEAKER_01:** Web meetup? Yes, but this one particularly—I saw that because I saw Vitalik's presentation in Miami, and so that really got me interested. So I knew what I was in for, and I went and showed up for that meeting in Hoxton Square, I think it was, that meeting.

**[04:35] SPEAKER_00:** Sorry, you said Vitalik's presentation, was that the one that he'd given in Miami?

**[04:39] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, exactly, Miami conference. And there was a—

**[04:42] SPEAKER_00:** Were you watching a variety of Bitcoin conference talks? Was that a sort of a regular thing that you were doing at that point, watching YouTube?

**[04:49] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, at the time I was very, very interested and very much into these things. I was hoping that, you know, changes related to this kind of technologies would come a lot earlier. I was already careful.

**[05:00] SPEAKER_00:** I was sold in the hype a bit, or contributed to it myself in a way. Had you been sort of following along with things like MasterCoin and Colored Coins and other sort of Bitcoin 2.0 projects?

**[05:11] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, actually I did, yeah. It was kind of a— I think it was BitShares at the point. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. And there was this kind of, and then Open Transactions, which was very close to kind of Gavin's heart, I think. We worked together. And yeah, I don't know what came out of that after all, but it's interesting. And then, so after I left the BBC and ran in that winter, just kind of spent in Thailand half in the retreat and then in my spare time I was working on the yellow paper and with my way through the really hard notation and getting put on paper.

**[05:52] SPEAKER_00:** A lot of people struggled with that sort of math heavy notation and—

**[05:55] SPEAKER_01:** And so when Gavin presented the museum, which would have been very early February. So, I mean, that was only like a week or so after Vitalik's presentation in Miami. It would have been very, very close. So you spoke to Gavin there and then you exchanged emails, did you?

**[06:11] SPEAKER_00:** Yes, basically, we changed emails. He put me on Skype group. There was a Skype group at the time. I think it was 20-odd people on it, really. So not a big crowd. And yeah, that's how it all started. So it was very nice in the beginning to have this kind of really grandiose ideas and chat and be part of it. I'm super proud and very happy that I managed to be at the—

**[06:36] SPEAKER_01:** It's kind of a lucky move, to be honest. So was it a fair bit later in that year that you started working with Danny on Swarm?

**[06:43] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, then it came a little bit later. So yes, first of all, in the spring, I started working on the yellow paper and then a bit on the C++, but not a lot. And then I think it was in March or sometime that I showed up on the first Ethereum meetup. Maybe not the first. I think you told me that it was not the first, but the second one. In London, this is?

**[07:05] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, yes, yes, yes. So this was organized by Stéphane Tual. Stéphane Tual there. There was a Michail there, who later came, Nakasha, I think. And then—

**[07:17] SPEAKER_00:** Sorry, Mihail was there, right?

**[07:19] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, yes. And I think who I talked to quite a lot was Jack de Rose. Yeah, of Colony. Colony fame, exactly. And then there is when I met Jeff first. Jeff became my boss later. He came to London for that meetup?

**[07:36] SPEAKER_00:** Yes, yes, he did. And so I kind of saw that it's quite an international crowd and from all over the world kind of doing these things. So I kind of took it very seriously. I said they had left my job and then joined the ranks and I kind of started contributing to the Go code and so yeah, after that I kind of I was really I was really into into the Go lang that's where I contributed most and become part of the Go Ethereum team after and after after Jeff offered this job around it was September October that year when the foundation was already—

**[08:12] SPEAKER_01:** Of actually paying out some salaries or like recruiting people on the teams. Yeah. So, I mean, I was looking at the timing on that. So the Ethereum Foundation was founded in July of 2014. And then the crowd sale was going through July, August, September. And then, yeah, the hiring, that first wave of—

**[08:30] SPEAKER_00:** We've actually got some money to hire people was sort of, you know, September, October. So October, in October, I can't remember, I was negotiating with Aeron Buchanan, I remember. Right, right. My contact then. And then, I don't know when the Amsterdam office in the—

**[08:46] SPEAKER_01:** Was actually funded, but I already visited Jeff, I think, later in that year there. So when I first kind of joined, I was really talking to myself with my friends in Hungary, and some of them related to this Facebook group, and among them like Dali, Fefe, and And there was another person who was very close to Swarm later, but never actually entered the scene officially. Let him be unnamed. And so there was some thinking that maybe the four of us can form a group and we can just join as a kind of sub-dev team or something. It never happened. So we were just hired individually.

**[09:22] SPEAKER_00:** Yes. Later that year, there was DevCon Zero. Is that correct? Yeah. Yeah, I mean, if we just pop back a little bit. So through 2014, prior to the sale and so on, I mean, so how were things working early in 2014? I mean, you've mentioned a Skype group where—

**[09:38] SPEAKER_01:** You know, were most people kind of working through Skype? Yes, yes, yes. It was really mainly, mainly, everything was done by, basically by Gavin, Jeff and—

**[09:47] SPEAKER_00:** And the rest of us were just Sherpas in the way at the time. And then just tapping out. I mean, I'm talking about the technical stuff. I'm really not sure about the admin and the foundation stuff. So I hope no offense is taken from anyone. But yeah, for tech stuff, it's yeah. So I think it was actually—

**[10:04] SPEAKER_01:** In July that Jeff shared a kind of boy theme to do with me and kind of introduced me to the intricacies of the then aspiring dev peer-to-peer protocol. And so I think that was my first project, I think, that was really kind of in the code base that I wrote it, which was then later scraped and completely rewritten by Felix and the other guys. But that was my first attempt, I think, at kind of going to be a networking layer. At the time, I was kind of trying to say really crazy ideas to Jeff about some developer tooling, some like, you know, contract, contract verification. and like staging and like fake blockchain environment and stuff. And it was other things to do and it was focusing on like maybe the end user applications like the, what was it at the time? I think it was the ETH, ETH Go. I think it was under ETH Go, but it was actually later the Mist browser business. Right. It was a browser. And so he was kind of trying to talk me out of it and said that the other group, the C++ team is assigned to that anyway, so let me not tread on unwanted paths. And so he kind of brought me back to—

**[11:00] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. Well, I mean, you had Aleph— you had Alex zero right? Alex zero, I guess with an earlier kind of in connection of that—

**[11:07] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, that's good. And then but there was some some kind of not so not so glorious tasks as well at the time refactor logging and then things like this I remember in the early days but there was also a time when I was I was kind of learning, learning, Golan, because that was also not the super popular language. There was a lot of learning to do.

**[11:28] SPEAKER_00:** I mean, it was relatively new at that point. So you'd mentioned the yellow paper. So in those very early months of 2014, Gavin in particular seemed to be incredibly productive in terms of what he was getting through with the C++ client and that yellow paper. I mean, was it usually the code that was leading and then the yellow paper was being kind of modeled after that? It's hard for me to say if they really were that kind of hand-in-hand developing, I think.

**[11:52] SPEAKER_01:** I can't really tell. Maybe it's better as him, to be honest. But yes, the productivity and actually the speed that he was churning at Kodak, absolutely stunning. It was a few months after some of his clients already worked. Yeah, to be honest, I mean, Jeff was the same and Jeff was also incredible in his productivity. And those people were really, really nice example in front of me. So I was really happy to learn from them. Yeah. And I mean, I think that that triangulation was so important, right. Of having multiple clients and the spec.

**[12:23] SPEAKER_00:** And you had the Piven client, though not really to that production status, but, you know, those three groups all, you know. There was a glorious—

**[12:30] SPEAKER_01:** Statement that, you know, Ethereum was very proud of that, like, this multi-client development was leading to very, very solid specs. It was actually true, but, of course, that was not the reason, but the reason was that all these brilliant individuals just followed their own favorite language and just wanted their own clients to be built. But, you know, I mean, ultimately what came out of it is amazing, like that. the specification was really i just remember just a few times that the specification had to be had to be changed there's like kind of one one case when there's like a modular operation that was not good not uh exactly it's a minus minus number exactly not sure exactly there was another one when I think it was around Easter 2015, or before, in the year leading to the launch. And I think that was when it's kind of a problem that the anchor was ahead. The two anchors had the same timestamp, I think. And that led to a fork. I remember I wrote a kind of blog post about it.

**[13:28] SPEAKER_00:** Never, never, never published it, so it's interesting. Talking to Jakub Czepluk, so he was an intern at the Berlin office in 2015, but he was telling me about a hard fork that had happened on the main net around two weeks or so after launch, which I was completely unaware of. um but then looking back um you know there was a sort of a security announcement by yuta it was a patching of the geth client um and while i've been doing stuff myself in terms of like running old clients i i i saw that as well um if you if you run geth 1.00 okay or geth 1.01 it it gets stuck It can't go through frontier blocks. So it was actually a hard fork. Do you remember what it was related to? It was not that interesting that you remembered. I mean, it was some kind of gas counting or something. Just some kind of little bug. But that was funny. That was a thing that I was not aware about. because I, you know, so it was a hard fork, but it was never given a name because it was just an accident. And, uh, and you know, you wonder how many more of these little things there were that happened that sort of forgotten in the midst of time. But, um, but yeah, so, I mean, through that, through that, um, early 2014 year, you were working initially on the C++ and then later on the Go. I mean, how many people were working on Go in 2014? I mean, it was really just a few people around Jeff. I think it was mainly designer and Alex van der Sande.

**[14:50] SPEAKER_01:** from Brazil, and yeah, and phew,

**[14:53] SPEAKER_00:** But you were the second team member then, is that right?

**[14:56] SPEAKER_01:** Correct, just about. Maybe actually the first officially, I'm not sure. The first paid one, I'm not sure. But I mean, we came roughly at the same time with Alex and I think with Felix. Right. Yeah, in terms of employment. Yeah, but I meant when you were working earlier, you know, when you started there. I mean, were there other people working on that Go Ethereum ahead of your joining in with him? Not really, not really. So he was, I was pretty much among the ones that contributed and the core that inspired him. And it, I mean, there was quite a bit of a vibrant ecosystem of, of, yeah, like it was the violent, vibrant, uh, community of people that like making, you know, the data became slow. It was like Nick Sabres around, like super tall little dude. And we were, we were going together to the, to the, to the Bitcoin conference. I think it was in April. Yeah. Oh, you went to Toronto. No, no, it was in Amsterdam. Oh, okay. And that's when I just really talked to Vitaly quite a bit. It was very nice. And I got a big party this month, so it was a nice time. It was a nice time.

**[15:58] SPEAKER_00:** Nick Savers is a name that I've seen a lot of times. And I've never really met or spoken to him. I guess he was around a lot early and then maybe kind of disappeared out. And maybe he's a little bit of a non-guy that doesn't show his face. Yeah. I mean, he never joined. I don't think he was ever an official part of any team. But he was always there. Yeah, around and helping us. I think he was employed by some bank. But I saw he and some others did the first continuous integration. You know, they were doing the build system. Nice, nice. And then he did work on the Java client as well. That is true. And the Java client was mainly...

**[16:40] SPEAKER_01:** by, what was his name? Roman Mandalay. That's correct, Roman Mandalay. Kind of mysteriously disappeared after a few years. I'm not sure what happened to him. I did see him on Facebook for quite a time. He seems to have either disappeared or something since. I remember I spoke to him at the London DEF CON, the DEF CON one. definitely around there with the whole ethereum j team yeah i don't know what their name was but ether camp that's correct okay thanks thanks for reminding us well nostalgic so yeah it was early uh sort of early 2017 i think that he uh kind of disappeared um they did hacker gold

**[17:20] SPEAKER_00:** And, you know, this is some kind of like hackathon that there was some controversy about. It looked like the team kind of like bought votes, bought votes or something, but were paid out anyway. And then, yeah, he sort of disappeared with some people thinking he'd exit scammed. I'm not convinced he did. Because if he did, it was the worst, like, exit scam ever. Because it was so early. You know, like, it wasn't like anyone had got any kind of big amount of money or anything at that point. It was sort of a very poor scam. He was definitely unable.

**[17:50] SPEAKER_01:** Principles so maybe so you'd mentioned about you'd mentioned about you you know your your sort of collaborative sort of sub-team so that's that's ethersphere well it's kind of it was it was a wishful thinking that might be ethersphere but on the other hand i can i did i did register that as an organization of github at least and even meant yes it i think it was pretty much the Anyway, I mean, if I could call it a brand. I mean, I think at that time, it was only Aaron Injustice who was...

**[18:20] SPEAKER_00:** Right, yeah, Harris. Who later became Monax. This is Marmot, Marmot. And they did some nice work, by the way. But yes, Ethosphere was, yeah, the home of maybe most of our work. And then you can committing through that to the code base. So that was yourself, Daniel Nagy, Zolt Feffelde. Yes, Zolt Feffelde, yeah. like already hired to work on the light client it was in 2015 already and uh yeah because he was not on defcon 0 but yeah defcon 0 was already confirmed and it's it's very so for danny and me joining By that time, there was quite a bit of, yeah, quite a bit of pass around with him, I think. So maybe, could you say a bit about Swarm? Because my understanding is that some of the ideas that went an awful long way back. Yeah. So I don't know if you remember, there was in May, May 2014, there was a seminar, you know, trial of talks in the, I think it was in Whitechapel somewhere, or somewhere in East London. And in that talk, that was the first appearance of VAP3 in the Ethereum context. It was usually explained, and the founders really realized how decentralization can basically also be extended then to support the entire, be the backend of the entire web. And basically, if you extend it to the data, app data, and then hosting, and to basically put the data layer on top, and then maybe the messaging, then you can conceive of it as the the word computer with this holy trinity of you know you can see them like the ethereum blockchain as the as the word computers cpu uh and the and the working to task disk would be small and then whisper would be the messaging layers so you were mentioning white chapel so that was Again, some meetups, was it?

**[19:50] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, yes. And I think maybe Theo even had some sort of co-working or some sort of high-end office there, maybe a room or two, because I very often found Vitalik there. So I'm not entirely sure how this works out. I don't want to say anything. Would that have been... There were a lot of internal meetings as well.

**[20:10] SPEAKER_00:** Would that have been when that kind of famous diagram would first have surfaced? You know, the one with like the circle and the apps coming in at the side?

**[20:17] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, that was just about that time, yeah. Including QML, I saw. So it was not just HTML, it was QML and Qt as other anticipated tech platforms.

**[20:26] SPEAKER_00:** Yes, so that's when Web3 was born, and it's kind of the crazy protocol names like after the ETH, which is also kind of this letter in Icelandic. Oh yeah, the thorn.

**[20:35] SPEAKER_01:** Yes exactly and so that's when this and then was invented also metallics gimmicks the uh those those ethereum well the sub protocols right protocols running on a common basis but the ethereum was just one of one of many related protocols

**[20:50] SPEAKER_00:** And that's why I was very dedicated to this whole Ethereum at the time. I really kind of understood what it means to have the entire kind of Turing-complete computation being secured on its own with the blockchain. And I kind of really envisioned quite a change in how the internet works if you have Swarm and then Whisper and all these things. So I quite liked the idea. And then later I kind of learned that you know, not only did they socialize on BitTorrent at the time, but actually some of us, like Dani, operating a DC plus node, had some legal troubles. Maybe we can also kind of talk about this with him at some point. So that's kind of brought us, so go team quite quite directly in the kind of realm of of implementing small this idea of a decentralized storage and maybe incentivization etc and a neighbor solution connected and zoltan mentioned to me um that he thought that the idea for swarm had gone back to at least 2011? Yeah, so there was this idea of... I mean, of course, I don't know about that, but it was mainly done in his idea that if he... I mean, he saw the amazing works of Pétol, they also saw some drawbacks. So maybe historically it's best to derive the whole idea of Swamp from them.